* From:【[]()】

------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  


## MarthaBlog_2022_07_27

* From:【[Bathing My Chow Chows, Empress Qin and Emperor Han](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/bathing-my-chow-chows-empress-qin-and-emperor-han.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

It's bath time for my Chow Chows.

My dogs are groomed and checked for ticks and fleas every day. I have always been a firm believer in regular brushing and bathing - every couple weeks for the dogs, and about once a month for my cats. Yesterday was bath time for my gorgeous Chow Chows, Empress Qin and Emperor Han. I actually love to do this task myself when I am home, but since I was away on a business trip, Carlos was happy to do the job. When bathing pets, it’s important to always use lukewarm water and only mild pet shampoos - we use my own Martha Stewart shampoos and conditioners from my collection on Amazon.

Here are some photos, enjoy.


Empress Qin is ready for a good summertime bath. Here she is in the back of my Polaris Ranger. Everyone at the farm loves our fleet of Polaris vehicles. They’re extremely efficient, easy-to-drive, and can go where other vehicles cannot.


The Chows are getting washed in the stable. This shower stall is located at one end. It is a large stall with padded lower walls for animal safety. The faucets are housed in a cabinet on the right to keep them out of the way. The shower stall is also equipped with heaters suspended from the ceiling if needed. The boom sprayer is very flexible and can swivel around easily.


My line of shampoos and conditioners are all-natural, hypoallergenic and gentle enough for regular bathing. The formulas are also paraben and sulfate-free. My moisturizing shampoo and conditioner cleanse and intensely moisturize the dog’s skin and coat. When bathing a dog, it’s essential to use products made especially for dogs because of the differences in pH balance.


Han is first – once he feels the lukewarm water, Han starts to relax. Han is four-years-old and such a good boy.


My dogs are very accustomed to being bathed. They’ve had many baths, but always keep an eye on any dog who is getting washed – just in case they want to make a quick move.


Apply the shampoo from the back of the ears to the tail and always be very careful around the face, ears, and eyes.


Carlos makes sure to apply shampoo to the dog’s stomach as well. My shampoo formulas are all great for pets with sensitive skin.


After applying the shampoo and letting it soak into the coat a few minutes, Carlos rinses well with lukewarm water. It is very important to get all the shampoo out – a rule of thumb is to keep rinsing until there are no visible bubbles on the coat – and then rinse a little more. Next, Carlos also applies conditioner and then rinses Han thoroughly again.


Qin is a champion show dog, so she is also very used to getting bathed and groomed. My Qin is so beautiful. Here, Carlos pours a small amount of shampoo to Qin’s coat – it lathers pretty quickly.


Carlos wears a full rain suit and boots, so he doesn’t get wet. Here he is stopping for a quick photo with Qin. Carlos shampoos Qin’s entire coat from head to tail.


Carlos scrubs carefully to soap every part of Qin’s body.


Carlos also makes sure to clean the feet, legs and underneath where dirt can accumulate. He talks to her as he is scrubbing. Qin is a good girl and stays very still for the entire process.


After soaping and rinsing, Carlos applies the conditioner and brushes Qin while it is absorbed into the coat.


Then she is rinsed thoroughly once again, making sure there is no shampoo or conditioner left on the coat at all – the water needs to penetrate all the layers of the dog’s heavy coat.


Carlos dries Qin very, very well. Here she is getting wiped down with a large terry towel. This is a good time to have the dog shake the water off. Train the dog to shake on command, so no one gets wet in the process.


The coat must be dried thoroughly. Carlos uses a professional pet hair dryer to blow the coat. Drying completely is crucial. Otherwise, the hair closest to the skin will pack down, retain dirt and moisture, and cause skin irritations.


The benefit of using a hair dryer specifically for pets is that they’re not really drying the dog by heat so much as blasting the water out of the fur. These powerful dryers also blow loose fur from their undercoat which means less shedding later.


Carlos dries the feet thoroughly, including in between the dog’s pads. If one chooses to use a hair dryer for humans, always put it to the no-heat setting. Never use high heat on a dog’s coat. Dogs are much more sensitive to external heat than humans are and have a far more difficult time dissipating heat.


Here’s Qin after she’s dry and well brushed. She looks great. There are two types of coat on a Chow Chow – rough and smooth. Both are double-coated. Qin is a rough-coated Chow. The outer coat is abundant, dense, and straight. The undercoat is soft and woolly. Chows should be sturdy and squarely built. Its body should be compact, and heavy-boned – Qin has a perfect body.


Here’s Han getting dried and brushed. I think Han enjoys his “spa” treatments.


According to the breed standard, Chows must have a lovely thick mane, with small rounded ears, giving it the appearance of a lion when all grown up. Han is a handsome boy.


All clean and ready to go! Once they’re done, the Chows are driven back up to my Winter House in my Polaris. Next for a bath… my Frenchies.

# en_2022_07-28

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_26

* From:【[Cutting Down an American Beech Tree](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/cutting-down-an-american-beech-tree.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

Maintaining a healthy landscape sometimes means cutting down trees.

**I always feel badly when trees are cut down.**  
**Trees are extremely important to our environment --- they are the world’s single largest source of breathable oxygen, they absorb carbon dioxide and potentially harmful gasses, and they create an ecosystem to provide needed habitat and food for birds and other animals.**  
**However, trees do not live forever, and occasionally they need to be removed.**  
**Last week, one of my American Beech trees lost some branches in a storm**, but this tree was also sick and dying of disease, so it had to come down.  

Here are some photos - enjoy.

**The American beech tree is considered both a shade tree and an ornamental tree.**  
**They can grow to a height of 50 to 70 feet and a spread of around 40 feet at maturity.**  
This American beech tree, located in my American beech tree grove near my Boxwood Allee, has not been looking good for some time.  
It is has been suffering from the beech leaf disease that is spreading rapidly through the Northeast killing both mature American beeches and saplings.  
**Look how bare it is --- healthy beech trees would be filled with leaves this time of year.**  

**A few of the branches were also damaged in a recent storm, so I instructed my outdoor grounds crew to take the entire tree down.**  

**Pasang is our resident arborist.**  
**He is very strong and very skilled at taking down many of the smaller trees around the farm.**  
**Here, he begins with some of the smaller branches closer to the ground.**  

**As all the branches are cut, they are neatly placed in piles, so they are easy to remove later.**  

**Pasang then starts on some of the higher branches --- always securing himself to the tree with the proper safety equipment.**  

Each long section of tree is cut by chainsaw.  
**This tree grows at a slow to medium rate, with height increases of anywhere from less than a foot to about 24-inches per year.**  

**And one by one, the branches fall to the ground.**  

Pasang stops for a quick photo.  
**It’s a warm day at the farm, but we’ve made it through last week’s heat wave.**  
**Temperatures this week are only expected in the 80s.**  

**Here, one can see what the leaf disease does to the leaves.**  
**It causes parts of leaves to turn leathery and withered and then kills a tree within six to 10 years.**  

**In the light, the leaves also show bands --- a clear sign of the beech leaf disease.**  
**An invasive nematode is believed to be responsible for this disease.**  
The microscopic worms are present in the leaves and buds of infected beech trees.  

**The bark of the American beech is gray and mostly smooth.**  
**American beech is often found on moist slopes, in ravines, and atop moist hammocks.**  

**Here is a pile of thicker branches waiting to be discarded.**  
**Because the tree is diseased, we cannot save any of the cut lumber --- the entire tree will be thrown away.**  

**Here’s a pile of smaller branches also neatly piled nearby.**  

Pasang works one section at a time, working his way from the highest point cutting branches and carefully moving down to the ground.  

**Here he is close to the base of the tree.**  
**Almost all the upper branches are now cut off. ** 

**Here is a look at the wood of the tree.**  
**Beech is a hard, strong, and close-grained wood.**  


**Pasang cuts some of the fallen branches into smaller, manageable pieces.**  
**He is using his favorite tool --- a STIHL in-tree gas-powered chainsaw.**  
**It is lightweight and easy to use when up in the trees.**  

And here is the beech tree once it has been emptied of all its top branches --- now only the trunk remains.  

Here is the site after the trunk is cut down.  
**It is always sad to see trees go, but this tree was in poor condition and would have likely succumbed to the disease.**  
It had to come down.  

**This remaining stump and the roots will also be removed, so a new tree can be planted in its place.**  

My outdoor grounds crew foreman, Chhiring, hauls some of the tree branches away to be discarded.  

Thanks Pasang for taking down the tree.  
Pasang takes each section to its designated pile.  
Another big outdoor project done and checked off our list.  


# en_2022_07-26

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_25

* From:【[My Fell Pony Gets New Shoes](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/my-fell-pony-gets-new-shoes.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

My handsome Fell Pony, Banchunch, is enjoying his new shoes.

**All my horses get new shoes every four to six weeks.**  
**Made of metal or sometimes rubber or other materials, horseshoes are designed to protect the horse’s hooves from wear.**  
Every shoe must be fitted properly in order to prevent mobility issues from developing.  
The horseshoes usually remain on the animal's hooves until the farrier returns to change them, but occasionally a horse will throw a shoe during a ride or just out in the paddock.  
That's exactly what happened to Banchunch --- he threw one of his front shoes, so we called in the farrier, Marc Hill, to come for a visit.

Enjoy these photos.  

**A farrier always has his or her box of important tools.**  
**When we see this in the stable, we know our farrier is not far away.**  
Among the implements needed to change horseshoes are the pullers, a clinch cutter, a brush, and a rasp.

Banchunch threw a shoe the night before while out in the pasture.  
**When this happens it’s important to call in the farrier to replace it quickly.**  
Here’s Banchunch waiting for the farrier, Marc Hill, to start the process.  

**Banchunch has sensitive hooves, so he wears glue-on shoes.**  
**Here, Marc uses old tube socks to protect the feathering on his legs from getting any glue on them.**  
The hoof on left is missing a shoe.  

Next, Marc uses a rasp, or a horse-sized file, to flatten and level the hoof and remove any uneven spots.  
**Hooves grow continuously, so filing the surface when re-shoeing is important for maintaining the horse’s foot balance and gait.**  

This is a hoof buffer attachment for a drill.  
**It quickly removes any marks, rings, or gouges on the hoof wall and helps to prep the hoof for the glue-on shoe.**  

**Rubber glue-on horseshoes absorb shock and vibration.**  
They are applied with a two-part epoxy adhesive that is made specifically for the equine foot.  

**A well-fitted horseshoe should align well with the edge of the hoof.**  
Marc pulls one out to try on Banchunch.  

Marc places the new shoe under Banchunch’s foot and assesses where adjustments are needed.  

**These shoes are pretty flexible and easy to shape for a proper fit.**  

**The hoof must be perfectly smooth for the adhesive to work, so Marc goes over the hoof again with a sanding block to create a clean gluing surface.**  

**My donkeys are so curious.**  
**Clive and Truman “TJ” Junior turn their heads to see what all the commotion is about.**  
**Most donkeys do not wear shoes, but they do need their hooves trimmed and filed regularly.**  

**Once the shoe is put on, Marc picks the hoof up and wraps it with plastic stretch wrap so the new shoe is tight against the hoof wall.**

The wrap holds the shoe in place while the glue is curing.  
**It doesn’t take long for the adhesive to start setting --- the wrap is removed after about 10 to 15 minutes.**  

Meanwhile, Banchunch’s other front hoof is lifted onto a hoof jack, so Marc can remove the other shoe.  

**Then he cleans the bottom of the hoof and removes any debris.**  
Downward strokes from heel to toe are always recommended.  
**Marc is careful around the frog, the triangular portion in the middle of the hoof, which is very sensitive.**  

Here, Banchunch’s left foot is wrapped and the right is unwrapped and ready for any touch-ups.

Marc traces the edges of the shoe with more glue to help seal the shoe rims in place.

Marc adds a bit more glue on the other hoof.  
**The glue is made using some of the same additives as dental adhesives for humans.**  

And that’s it --- Banchunch is all done.  
**New shoes that will last another six weeks.**  

**The shoes still need a little more time to set, so Banchunch is secured for a good grooming.**  

**Once done, my darling Fell pony is now ready for a good rest.**  
See you soon, my handsome Banchunch.  

# en_2022_07-24

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_23

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

* From:【[Summer Pruning at the Dwarf Apple Espalier](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/summer-pruning-at-the-dwarf-apple-espalier.html)】  

**Here in Bedford, New York, it's going to be another hot, humid, dry weekend with temperatures in the 90s.**  
Despite the uncomfortable summer weather, everyone is doing what they can to maintain the many gardens, groves, allées, and espaliers.  

This time of year, everyone is weeding, watering, and pruning.  
When it comes to pruning, there are different strategies for different times of the year, but overall the goals are the same --- to control the shape, to keep bushes and trees fresh and open, and to allow for better air circulation through the center of the specimen.  
My outdoor grounds crew has already pruned the sculpted hornbeam hedges near my main greenhouse and Winter House as well as the large European beech hedge surrounding my pool.  
Next, the team tackled the apple espaliers and lilac standards behind my long carport.  

Enjoy these photos.  
**And be sure to check out my TikTok @MarthaStewart to see me pruning the Asian pear espalier by my stable!**  

**When I first moved to Bedford, I found a perfect location to plant a little orchard of espalier apple trees --- this space behind my long carport not far from my Winter House.**  
**Espalier refers to an ancient technique, resulting in trees that grow flat, either against a wall, or along a wire-strung framework.**  

These espalier apples have done wonderfully here.  
**They’re supported on wire attached to strong antique granite posts from China originally used as grape supports.**  
There are four rows of espaliered apples.  

**Here are some of the many apples already growing.**  
The apple tree is a deciduous tree in the rose family best known for its sweet, pomaceous fruit, the apple.  
**I have many different varieties growing at my farm.**  
**During a good apple season, my granddaughter Jude and I make lots and lots of cider.**  

**The leaves of apple trees are ovate and dark green with asymmetrical leaf bases.**  
**The leaf margins are curved and serrated.**  

**Here’s Phurba working from the top --- one can see all the new growth that needs trimming.**  

**When he prunes, Phurba cuts branches at a 45 to 60 degree angle.**  
**He is also using pruners for this job.**  
**I always prefer hand tools that will give my trees a more natural appearance and shape.**  
**Every gardener and member of my outdoor grounds crew has a pair.**  

**Chhiring works from the ground --- it’s very hot out, so an umbrella provides some good shade.**  
**Pruning encourages the tree to grow fruiting spurs by eliminating competing suckers and unproductive wood.**  

**As with any pruning project, it’s important to cut the three “Ds” --- dead, diseased, and damaged branches.**  
He also cuts any suckers which helps to keep the tree healthy and directs energy to the branches with fruiting buds.  

The final cut on each unwanted bough needs to be alongside the “branch collar”, where the branch intersects with another.  
**Growth cells concentrate in these nodes, causing fast bark regrowth which seals the cuts.**  

**The job takes a couple days to complete, but it is done carefully and thoughtfully.**  
Look at all the cut branches from just one row of dwarf apple trees.  

**Here are more apples growing --- I am hoping for a bountiful fruit season this fall.**  

Chhiring uses my Stainless Steel Multi-Purpose Folding Pruning Saw available at Martha.com.  
**The 8-inch blade, crafted from Japanese stainless steel, features a strong cross-cutting design for sawing in both directions.**  
**I always make sure my crew gets to use and test the products I design.**  

Here, Chhiring cuts branches that are rubbing or crisscrossing each other, preventing any healthy new growth.  
**Basically, the goal is to create a tree with well spaced lateral branches.**  
**Any branches which interfere with the tree’s shape or create a dense framework should be removed.**  

**Chhiring also focuses on removing crowded branches to help let in light and promote good air circulation.**  

**From the carriage road, one can see the pruned trees in the front and the area still to be pruned in the back.**  
**My long carport is behind the espaliered apple trees.**  
**I hang a series of bird feeders along this side of the carport for all the visiting birds --- about 125 different species of birds visit my feeders.**  

**There is a lot of pruning to do on these trees --- they are healthy and have produced a lot of growth in the last six months.**  
Phurba works from the ground to get under a bit of shade.  
**This day’s temperatures hit 94-degrees Fahrenheit.**  

**By this day’s end, every row is cut just right --- here’s a view from the top.**  
**I am so proud of how productive these trees are --- in part because of the excellent maintenance care we give them.**  

**And here’s a view from the side.**  
**It looks much better now after pruning.**  

These are the leaves of my ‘Miss Kim’ lilac standards.  
**Lilac leaves feature smooth, hairless, heart-shaped leaves.**  

In front of the apple espalier, I have several ‘Miss Kim’ lilac standards lining the edge of the carriage road.  
Phurba did a great job pruning these also.  
‘Miss Kim’ is one of the first dwarf cultivars.  
**It was originated from seeds imported from South Korea.**  
In spring, these trees feature long panicles of sweetly scented lavender blooms that burst from purple buds.  
**I am so glad the gardens are looking beautiful this year --- everyone is working hard.**  
**Now, if we could just get some more rain!**  


# en_2022_07-22

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_22

* From:【[Installing Shelves](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/installing-shelves.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

**What projects are on your "to-do" list this weekend?**  
**Here at my Bedford, New York farm, we always have a long list of projects to complete** --- among them, putting shelves up on a bare wall of my guest house studio prep kitchen.  

Mounted shelves free up needed space in any room.  
**Since shelves are intended to bear weight, it's crucial they be installed correctly.**  
One must take the time to locate the wall’s studs and to fasten the shelves securely to supportive brackets.  

**Here are some photos and helpful tips for getting the job done.**  

**As part of the set-up in my guest house studio prep kitchen, it was important to ensure there was enough storage space to accommodate all the necessary equipment --- all the many tools, supplies and table top appliances.**  
**My property manager, Doug White, is a very skilled carpenter.**  
I asked him to make shelves to fit a space and the above bare wall in one corner of the kitchen.  
**Here are the shelves ready to be installed.**  

**These brackets are from one of my previous home collections.**  
**I knew they would be perfect for the above counter shelf.**  

**I instruct everyone on my crew to always have all the right tools for the right jobs.**  
**Doug gathers all the supplies he needs before starting the project.**  

**The first step is to find the wall studs.**  
**Nowadays, one can use a stud finder to locate the wall studs.**  
**These handy tools are available from hardware stores and home improvement centers.**  
Dough holds the stud finder flat against the wall and slowly slides the tool until it beeps and flashes --- this means it’s detected a stud underneath.  
**Most wall studs are spaced 16 to 24 inches apart.**  

**Using a pencil and tape measure, Doug makes a light mark where the shelf bracket screw should go.**  

**Doug holds up one of the shelf’s mounting brackets to make sure it is at the desired height.**  

**Doug then drills the two inch screw into the marked spot and then into the wall stud.**  

**Because the bracket has a keyhole on the back for for the screw, Doug avoids over-tightening it.**  
**Instead, the screw should just be about an eighth of an inch from the wall.**  

**Doug secures the bracket onto the wall --- it is a perfect fit.**  
**If it wiggles slightly, tighten the screw just a bit and secure the bracket again until it is completely secure. He does the same for the other side.**  

Finally, the shelf is put in place on top of the brackets and then checked for level.  
**It is very straight and level.**  

**These shelf brackets are so handsome --- they look wonderful in this location.**

To secure it even more, Doug places two screws through the shelf from the top and into the brackets.  

Here’s Doug next to the new shelf.  

Just underneath the counter, Doug prepares battens for two more shelves.  
Here he is drilling pilot holes where they will be fastened to the wall.  

**A pilot hole is a small hole drilled as a guide for the insertion of a nail or screw.**  

**For one side, which is a metal cabinet, Doug uses self-drilling screws which can go through the metal without needed a separate drilling step.**  

**Here is the self-drilling screw next to a wood screw.**  
One can see how the base of the screw has the drill bit shaped point.  

Doug fastens the self-drilling screw through the batten to secure it to the metal cabinetry behind it.  

**He fastens two other battens on the other side with regular screws into the wall studs.**  

**Lastly, Doug checks for level and plumb.**  

**And the shelves are placed into the space --- they’re also a perfect fit.**  


**Here’s the above counter shelf which also looks great.**  
**It holds and stores our often used appliances nearby without using up needed work space below.**  
**This job took less than an hour to complete and will serve years of good use.**  
**What home projects are you tackling this weekend?**  
Please share them with me in the comments section.  
**I love hearing from all of you.**  


# en_2022_07-21

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_21

The flower garden beds here at my Bedford, New York farm abound with gorgeous, bright and fragrant lilies.  

Lilium is a genus of herbaceous flowering plants that grow from bulbs, all with large prominent flowers.  
The beautiful blooms can be enjoyed as cut flowers in an arrangement or growing in the garden --- some at two feet, and others as tall as eight feet.  
I love lilies, and have been growing them for years --- Asiatic, Martagon, Candidum, American, Longiflorum, Trumpet and Aurelian, Oriental, and various interdivisional hybrids.  

Here are some photos, enjoy.  

**Many of my lilies are planted in my large flower cutting garden just behind my main greenhouse.**  
I also have lilies growing along the winding pergola, outside my Winter House kitchen, in the sunken garden behind my Summer House, and in the formal garden outside the front of the greenhouse.  
**Lilium is a genus of herbaceous flowering plants grown for their very showy, often fragrant flowers.**  

**Lily flowers are large and come in a range of colors including yellows, whites, pinks, reds, and purples.**  
**They may be planted in early spring or fall.**  
**Both planting times will give flowers in mid to late summer.**  
This Turk’s cap-type lily has white blooms with raised, dark red spots and warm yellow-orange centers.  

**Lilies are native to temperate areas of the Northern Hemisphere.**  

The true lilies are erect plants with leafy stems, scaly bulbs, usually narrow leaves, and solitary or clustered flowers.  

**The lily has a diversity of symbolism throughout the world.**  
**In fact, different colored lilies represent different things.**  
**While the white lily represents purity, the spotted tiger lily represents pride or confidence.**  
**In Japan and China, lilies are a traditional symbol of good luck, whereas Greek lore associates the flower with motherhood.**  
These bright white blooms marked with soft yellow centers are so pretty en masse.  

**Here’s a beautiful orange lily growing in my flower garden.**  
**Lilies like to have their “head in the sun, feet in the shade,” and should be planted where they can get at least six hours of full sun per day.**  

**It’s important for their foliage to be exposed to plenty of light --- and not be shaded by other plants.**  

**Over time, most lilies will multiply and the plants will grow into large clumps with many stems, but don’t worry they don’t mind being crowded.**  

Lily flowers consist of six petal-like segments, which may form the shape of a trumpet, with a more or less elongated tube.  
The segments may also be reflexed to form a turban shape, or they may be less strongly reflexed and form an open cup or bowl shape.  

When it comes to water, lilies prefer moist soil but not wet feet.  
**Choose a well-drained site, preferably not too dry.**  

**When cutting flowers, the best time to do it is early in the morning before the sun and wind have a chance to dry the flowers.**  
One can also cut late in the evening after they are rehydrated.  

This one has yet to open.  

**Rose lilies are lush, double-flowered, gorgeous blooms.**  
Their layered blooms are pollen-free and their aroma is pleasantly light.  

**And before bringing them indoors, be sure to gently pull those anthers off of each flower.**  
Pollen is notorious for staining flesh and fabric.  
**Removing the anthers prevents any pollen from getting on the flower petals, which can eat away at the delicate flower parts and shorten the life of the blooms.**  

**When handling lilies, it’s a good idea to wear gloves and clothes you don’t mind getting dirty.**  
**If you happen to get a pollen stain on your clothing, do not rub!**  
**Instead, reach for a roll of tape and use the sticky side to gently dab the area --- the particles will adhere to the tape.**  

**Lilies have one of the longest in-vase lifespans of any cut bloom and the flowers will continue to mature after they’ve been cut.**  

**The cultivation of lilies dates back to 1500 B.C.**  
**Many of the bright colors and forms of lilies were found on botanical expeditions during the 1800s in Asia.**  
**The Chinese and Japanese lily species were exported to Europe and hybridized to create new varieties that are popular today as cut flowers and as garden plants.**  

**Many lilies smell stronger at night.**  
**This is because during the reproduction of lilies, pollen has to get inside the pistil, which usually happens at night and as an immediate response, the fragrance is released.**  

**As the blossoms begin to fade, snip them off to keep the plants looking neat.**  
When all the flowers are spent, remove the entire cluster, but leave the rest of the stem in place.  
**Allow the stem and the leaves to continue growing until they turn yellow in late summer or fall.**  
Then the stems can be cut back to within a couple inches of the soil surface.  

**These lilies will continue blooming through mid-August** --- I am looking forward to enjoying many lily arrangements in the weeks ahead.  
What are your favorite lilies?  
Share your comments with me below.  


# en_2022_07-20

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_20

* From:【[Pasang Sherpa Shares Photos from His Trip to Switzerland and the French Alps](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/pasang-sherpa-shares-photos-from-his-trip-to-the-french-alps.html)】

**I always enjoy seeing photos from others taken during their vacations, especially when they travel to interesting places.**  

**Not long ago, a member of my outdoor grounds crew, Pasang Sherpa, traveled with his family for one week to Europe --- London, France, and Switzerland.**  
**Pasang, who has many friends in the French Alps region, used to go there every year, but this was his family's first trip.**  
They visited the Jardin Anglais in Geneva, hiked around Chamonix-Mont-Blanc and Sixt-Fer-á-Cheval in France, visited the famous Rouget waterfall, and walked deep into the Grotte de Grace ice cavern.  

Here are a few of his photos, enjoy.  

**Pasang and his family flew at night from New York’s JFK International Airport to London.**  
This is a night view from their plane.  

**Many of you may recognize Pasang from this blog.**  
**He is our resident tree expert here at my farm.**  
**Here he is in London at the beginning of his trip.**  

**One of their big stops was in Geneva, Switzerland.**  
**Here, on the western most tip of Lake Geneva, or Lac Léman, Pasang quickly took a photo of these swans.**  
**Lake Geneva is the largest lake in central Europe, straddling the border between Switzerland and France.**  

**This is the famous flower clock at the Jardin Anglais.**  
**Planted in 1955, it is the biggest clock in the world made exclusively from flowers.**  
**It was built at the park’s centennial to pay homage to Switzerland, watchmaking and horticulture.**  
**The Jardin Anglais is also home to several hundred-year-old trees, such as a ginkgo planted in 1863 and a red beech planted in 1895 for the National Exhibition.**  

**Here’s a photo of Pasang’s daughter, Sonam, and his wife, Ihemi at Jardin Anglais.**

The family also visited Chamonix-Mont-Blanc --- a resort area near the junction of France, Switzerland and Italy.  
**Les Praz is a charming picturesque village just outside the center of Chamonix.**  
**From this vantage point, one can see the beautiful snow-capped mountains in the distance.**  

Another highlight was the a visit to the Grotte de Glace ice cave in Chamonix --- more than 500 steps down.  
**The Grotte de Glace cave is carved into a glacier ...**  

**And all done by man to form the one and only glacier museum in France.**  
**This cave meanders through the Mer de Glace glacier and has many rooms and tunnels.**  

**The cave is reshaped every year and has been for the past half-century, in order to provide safety and interest for visitors.**  

Not far is the Cascade du Rouget – a gorgeous waterfall in Haute-Savoie, in the Sixt-Fer-à-Cheval area.  
Also known as the “Reine des Alpes” or Queen of the Alps, this waterfall has two drops and it’s more than 296 feet.  

**Surrounding the waterfall are these gorgeous views.**  
**The area is just filled with flora and fauna.**  

Among the highest mountains in the area is Mont Buet, also called “Women’s Mont Blanc” which reaches 10,167 feet.  

Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval has miles and miles of trails and paths among alpine meadows, forests, and waterfalls.  

**At the end of their hike, Pasang and his family enjoyed fresh omelettes made right on the hillside.**  

**Followed by a short nap.**  

**And then it was time to hike back to the base.**  
**Pasang and his family enjoy hiking.**  
**In fact, Sherpas live in the most mountainous areas of Nepal, high in the Himalayas.**  
**They are renowned in the international climbing and mountaineering community for their hardiness, expertise, and experience at very high altitudes.**  

**Along the way, the group saw a large herd of sheep grazing.**  

**This photo includes Pasang’s son Tash, Sonam, and Pasang’s brother Dawa, who is a three-time Winter Olympics cross-country skier.**  

**The area around the village of Sixt-Fer-à-Cheval belongs to Sixt-Passy, one of the most beautiful nature reserves of the Haute Savoie.**  
**There are glaciers, high cliffs, waterfalls, alpine meadows, streams, and rivers.**  
Here are Tash and Sonam by one of the ice formations.  

And here is Ihemi in one of the camping “cabins” available to hikers.  
This one is just big enough to sleep in after a long day’s trek.  

**When closed, it is safe from inclement weather and curious animals.**  
**Although the family did not stay on the mountain, they did enjoy a short rest before heading back to the village.**  
**Pasang’s wife and children are already thinking about their next trip abroad.**  
Thanks for sharing your photos, Pasang!  


## MarthaBlog_2022_07_19

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

* From:【[Caring for My Growing Tomato Plants](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/caring-for-my-growing-tomato-plants.html)】

**If you’ve ever grown a vining plant, you know how important it is to provide strong structures to which the vines can cling and climb.**  
Using tall, natural bamboo stakes and strong jute twine is a great way to support the growing tomato plants in my garden bed.  

**I am always interested in trying new ways to improve productivity in the gardens.**  
This season, I decided to use eight foot vertical stakes secured to horizontal ones to create our tomato supports.  
**Bamboo is attractive, easy to find, and can be reused year after year.**  
So far, they've been working excellently.  
And yesterday, my outdoor grounds crew foreman, Chhiring Sherpa, tied some of the long vines to the bamboo to keep them all the fast-growing fruits off the ground.  

Here are some photos, enjoy.

**After three weeks of hot, humid, and dry weather, we finally got some much needed rain.**  
**Tomatoes grow best when the daytime temperature is between 65 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit.**  
**They stop growing above 95 degrees Fahrenheit.**  
**Tomatoes also need full sun and warm, well-drained soil.**  
Our tomatoes are thriving and it’s time to support their growing vines.  

In late May, the season’s designated tomato beds are covered in black weed cloth to cut down on some of the laborious weeding in the garden.  
We planted our tomatoes in the back of the garden this year – always as part of our crop rotation practice.  

Our tomato plants are always started from seed over the winter and then transplanted in the ground as soon as daytime temperatures are consistently above 65-degrees Fahrenheit.  
**Two-thirds of the plant should be underground, meaning all but the two top most leaf sets should be buried.**  
**Planting deeply helps the plant to develop more roots, and more roots mean more ability to take up water and nutrients.**  
**If the seedling is already too tall and wobbly, dig a trench instead of a hole and lay the plant on its side.**  
**The stronger root system also helps the plant better survive the hot weather.**  
This applies to tomatoes planted in the ground, in a raised bed or in a container.  

**These are the tomato plants in early June.**  
**With nutrient rich soil and warm days they’ve grown pretty quickly.**  
**Tomatoes, Solanum lycopersicum, have long been one of America’s favorite garden vegetables.**  **Those bold red, sun-ripened tomatoes deliver the taste of summer with every bite.**  
**And, they’re filled with excellent antioxidants and vitamins.**  
**We plant many, many tomatoes, but just a handful of healthy plants can produce a bounty of delicious fruits within eight weeks.**  

I am always trying new methods for staking our tomato plants.  
Every year we try something new and better.  
**I like using bamboo canes.**  
**They are easy to buy in bulk, and can be found in a variety of sizes.**  
**These canes are about eight to nine feet tall.**

**This year, I came up with the idea to make straight supports down each aisle – with no netting, just bamboo.**  
**The first step is to pound the stakes into the ground, so all are the same height along the bed.**

Chhiring places one eight-foot stake every couple of feet along the center of the tomato beds.  
**And each one is about eight to 10-inches deep.**  
The important thing is to place them deep enough, so they remain secure for the duration of the season.  

Next, Chhiring secures horizontal bamboo pieces across all the bamboo stakes.  
He makes four rows about a foot apart going up the bamboo.  

**And then secures them with jute twine.**  
Chhiring secures twine at each joint, so it is tight and strong enough to hold the fruit laden vines.  
**Securing the tomato plants is a time consuming process, but very crucial to good plant growth and performance.**  

Here is one aisle.  
**Look closely, the plants are still quite small, but it won’t take long before they cover the base of the stakes**.  

**Two weeks later, the plants are already several inches taller.**

And yesterday, many were more than two feet tall, with their vines drooping onto the ground.  

Here’s Chhiring measuring and cutting strands of jute twine to the same length.  

**Then he drapes them around his neck as he works to carefully tie up the long tomato vines.**  

First he loops it gently around the vine ...  

And then he secures it to the bamboo crossbar.  
**He ties a simple knot tightly to the bamboo.**  

**And this lifts the vine off the ground.**  
**There is plenty of space to tie and support every tomato vine.**  
**This is the best method we have used yet.**  

Tomato leaves have serrated, or wavy and pointed, edging along the entire perimeter.  
Tomato leaves are compound with multiple leaflets growing along a common stem, called a rachis.  
**These leaves are also slightly fuzzy to the touch, which is caused by the trichomes, or multi-cellular hairs, on the plant.**  
**Never use chemically treated wood or other material for staking climbers, as the chemicals would likely run off and go into the soil.**  

Remember, it’s the yellow flowers produced by tomato plants that must be fertilized before fruit can form.  
**Once fertilized, the flowers develop into tomatoes --- small green globes that become visible at the base of the blossoms and then eventually become mature fruits.**  

**Here are some of the green fruits already growing on the vines.**  
**It’s a good idea to grow several varieties, including at least one or two disease-resistant types, since, of all veggies, tomatoes tend to be the most susceptible to disease.**  
There are several types of tomatoes available, including globe tomatoes used in processing, and for fresh eating.  
Beefsteak are large, often used for sandwiches.  
**Oxheart tomatoes vary in size and are shaped like large strawberries.**  
**Plum tomatoes are usually oblong, and used in tomato sauces.**  
**Cherry tomatoes are small round, often sweet and eaten whole.**  
**Campari tomatoes are sweet and juicy and of small to medium size.**  
**Many of our tomatoes are from Johnny’s Selected Seeds --- a source I’ve been using for many years for both seeds and supplies.**  

**It takes about 50 to 90 days for tomato varieties to reach maturity.**  
**Planting can also be staggered to produce early, mid and late season tomato harvests.**  

**Here are some cherry tomatoes already changing color.**  
**I can’t wait to try the fruits of our labor.**  

**These plants look so much better when kept upright and neat.**  
**The tomato plants have a lot of room to climb, keeping delicious fruits looking their best.**  
**Very soon, we will have many, many tomatoes to enjoy.**  
**I am looking forward to a wonderful harvest this season.**  
**I can almost taste them already!**  

# en_2022_07-18

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_18

* From:【[Displaying Newly Painted Garden Furniture](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/displaying-newly-painted-garden-furniture.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

**My newly painted outdoor garden furniture looks so wonderful out on my terraces --- a new coat of paint is an easy way to update and transform these metal pieces.**  

Not long ago, I decided to paint a large number of metal furniture pieces my signature "Bedford gray".  
Some of the items were old, weathered, and in need of attention, while others were simply painted the wrong shade or color.  
**It took several days to prime and paint the furniture, and then a few more until everything was completely dry.**  
**Last week, we put them all out where they could be used and enjoyed by visiting family and friends.**  

Here are some photos.

Earlier this month, I gathered all my mismatched, timeworn, metal garden furniture along with some pieces that had been incorrectly painted, and prepared a painting area outside my Winter House carport, so all the furniture could be repainted the same Bedford gray.

Two of my crew – Pete and Fernando --- took on the task of spray painting every piece --- first with a primer made especially for metal and then with an oil based finishing paint.  

**All the pieces looked so great once finished.**  
**Then it was another three days of drying to make sure everything was completely dry.**  
**Drying time is heavily dependent on the surface of the material.**  
**Oil-based paints take longer to dry on metal than on wood or drywall.**  
**There was no rain in the forecast, so it was fine to leave them all drying in my carport.**  

**The first pieces I moved were these benches.**  
**They look so nice outside my Flower Room.**  
It creates a whole new space for rest and contemplation here in this passage way to my Winter House kitchen.  

**Last Friday, Pete and I began moving the rest of the furniture to their new summertime homes.**  

**On this terrace, I placed this charming plant stand.**  
I’m looking forward to filling it with small potted plants from my greenhouse.  

**Have you every seen one of these?**  
**It is called a “conversation chair.”**  
**Over the centuries it has also been known as the courting bench, a tête-à-tête, a chaperone chair, the vis-à-vis, or the gossip chair.**  
It was considered a piece of sophistication and style during the Gilded and Victorian age.  

**Here’s another view.**  
Conceived in 19th century France, the basic setup shows two seats conjoined in a serpentine shape, allowing sitters to have a quiet, more intimate conversation while also preventing too much physical contact because of the shared armrest cleverly doubling as an elegant barrier.  

Over in front of this window is a dainty single chair – also in the same Victorian era style. But look closely ...  

**It is actually in miniature size --- for the youngest of guests.**  

And here is an average sized Victorian style bench --- also painted the same Bedford gray.

In the courtyard behind my Winter House kitchen, Pete and Dawa transport this large plant stand.

**It looks very nice behind this table.**  
**Once the glass tabletop is returned, this will be a great spot for summertime brunches.**  

**Another small table is positioned on the terrace behind my Summer House.**  
These chairs are Francois Carre Sunburst chairs, also known as Pinwheel chairs.  

Nearby is another Sunburst chair sitting behind a small glass covered metal desk looking out at the formal sunken garden.  
**These chairs were made in both France and the United States until the 1940s.**  
**They have a spring mechanism on the seat and backs.**  

**And look at the garden now – so lush and green with all the beautiful foliage.**  
When I first designed this garden, I called it my Boxwood Room.  
It measures 60 by 120 feet.  
**The garden’s focal point is the old Ginkgo tree at the back of the garden.**  
On the sides are smaller ginkgo trees planted over the sculpted boxwood shrubs and hedges.  

**And over on the terrace parterre in front of my Winter House kitchen --- this circular bench, ready for visiting friends and family.**  

**Over on the other side, tables and other seating arrangements --- everything is now all matched and ready for summer entertaining.**  

**One single bench is placed in front of the herb garden with a perfect view of the paddocks and stable beyond.**  
**We are in desperate need of some rain here in the Northeast and in much of the country, but the gardens are looking beautiful this season.**  

**Here is another view over one of two hand-casted antique fountains I purchased many year ago.**  
They are 19th century fountains with a hexagonal shape.  
**I installed them about four years ago and the birds love them.**  
**I hope you are all enjoying your summer and the beauty of your gardens.**  



# en_2022_07-17

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_16
* From:【[Pruning the Hedges Around My Pool](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/pruning-the-hedges-around-my-pool.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

Another good pruning job is complete at my Bedford, New York farm --- this time, on the hedges surrounding my swimming pool.  

**In 2018, we planted more than 170 purple columnar beech trees, Fagus sylvatica 'Dawyck Purple' along the inside of the pool fence.**  
**The columnar beech is a splendid tree with deep-purple foliage that holds its color all season long.**  
Around the outside of the pool fence, I have a hedge of two dark-colored burgundy-black leafed specimens --- Physocarpus opulifolius ‘Diabolo’ and Cotinus coggygria ‘Royal Purple' shrubs.  
I always try to incorporate unique and interesting plantings into my gardens --- all these have superlative color and appealing form.  
This week, my crew gave the hedges a good pruning to keep them all healthy and looking their best.

Enjoy these photos.

**When planning the gardens around my pool four years ago, I wanted to create a natural border along both sides of my pool fence, so I chose a dark purple color palette.**  
**These Physocarpus and Cotinus shrubs have grown quite a bit since last year – it’s hard to see the beech trees behind them.**  

Here is the inside hedge of columnar beech trees.  
These are fastigiate meaning their branches slope upward more or less parallel to the main stem.  
**I knew these would be perfect around the pool, but like all garden specimens, they must be well-maintained.**  
It was time to prune them all at least a foot.  

The leaves of the columnar purple beech are rounded ellipses, two to four inches long and one to three inches wide, with an undulating margin and a slightly pointed tip.  
**They are smooth and softly lustrous in the sunlight.**  
**In spring the new leaves are a vibrant, deep purple-red.**  
**As they mature in summer they become dark burgundy-purple, holding this color well through the hotter weather.**  

Physocarpus is commonly called ninebark, and is an upright, spreading, somewhat coarse, deciduous, Missouri-native shrub which is closely related to the genus Spiraea.  
**It boasts a deep burgundy foliage with ovate to rounded, usually three to five lobed leaves that are dull green in summer changing to an undistinguished yellow in fall.**  
Then its color veers toward bronzy red by the time the leaves fall in late November.  

**After the white flowers of the physocarpus bloom, what follows are these seed pods – a favorite food of small birds.**

Also known as smoketree or smoke bush, Cotinus is a genus of two species of flowering plants in the family Anacardiaceae, closely related to the sumacs.  
They are a great choice for massing or for hedges.  
The stunning dark red-purple foliage turns scarlet in autumn and has plume-like seed clusters, which appear after the flowers and give a long-lasting, smoky haze to branch tips.  

In fact, the name “smoke bush” comes from this – the billowy hairs attached to the flower clusters which remain in place through the summer, **turning a smoky pink to purplish-pink.  
I have many smoke bushes around the farm.**  

Here’s Chhiring starting to prune the outside shrubs.  
**Pruning means to lop or cut off any superfluous branches or shoots for better-shape and better growth.**  
**These look fuller every year – in part because of our regular pruning.**  

**Chhiring cuts off any dead or crisscrossing branches first.**  
**The rule of thumb when pruning is to cut the dead, diseased, damaged, non-productive, structurally unsound, or otherwise unwanted plant material.**  
**The branch on the right is dead – it is woody and hollow.**  

**To remove the top, Chhiring uses our STIHL HSA 94 R Hedge Trimmer, which is ideal for making clean pruning cuts.**  

**Chhiring carefully goes over the top of the shrubs with the trimmer keeping them all at the same height as the fence itself.**  

Here’s a look after a section of it is cut --- **it looks so much better**.  

**It doesn’t take long for the ground to fill with clippings.**  
**Once all the pruning is done, Pasang rakes up all the trimmed branches ...**  

**And then loads them all up in our trusted Polaris vehicle, so they can be taken to the compost pile where they will decompose for next year’s garden dressing.**  

**Here’s a view from the other side.**  
They’re the perfect height and still disguises the fence very well --- one cannot see it at all.  

To ensure the pruning is perfectly straight on the beech trees, we always use a landscaping twine, so it is visible and can be pulled taut.  

Here’s a look at one side of the newly pruned beech tree hedge --- so straight all the way around.  

**These trees create such a gorgeous privacy screen around my pool.**  

**I wanted the pool to look as natural as possible where I could enjoy the panoramic views of the landscape with my family and friends.**  
At the far end of the pool I have five staddle stones.  
Staddle stones were originally used in the 17th and 18th centuries as support bases for granaries, hayricks, and game larders.  
**They typically looked like giant stone mushrooms, but mine are square –-- a more rare and unique version.**  

**The pool is so inviting.**  
**This is one of my favorite summertime areas of the farm.**  
**And the perfect place to cool off --- it’s expected to be a very hot, humid week ahead.**  



# en_2022_07-16

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_15

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

* From:【[My Vegetable Gardens in Mid-July](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/my-vegetable-gardens-in-mid-july.html)】

It's going to be another dry, humid day here at my Bedford, New York farm with temperatures in the high 80s.  
**We haven't had any rain at all for at least two weeks - hopefully we'll get some soon.**  

**Despite the uncomfortable summer weather and lack of precipitation, the vegetables are thriving, and the gardens are looking excellent.**  
**It's so much fun to visit right now because of all the growing produce --- there’s something new popping up every day.**  
We have broccoli, cauliflower, artichokes, lettuce, peas, fava beans, Swiss chard, peppers, cilantro, and so much more.  

Enjoy these photos.  

**Here is one side of my vegetable garden down by the chicken coops.**  
The vegetable gardens are entirely fenced in to protect the crops from hungry creatures.  
**I try different configurations every year to see which ones work best for what we are growing.**  
**I like to use the most amount of space possible for planting.**  

Swiss chard is a leafy green vegetable often used in Mediterranean cooking.  
**The leaf stalks are large and vary in color, usually white, yellow, or red.**  
The leaf blade can be green or reddish in color.  
**This year, the Swiss chard is near the front entrance of this garden.**  

**We’ve already harvested many beans.**  
Bush beans are second only to tomatoes as the most popular vegetables in home gardens.  
Bush beans, or snap beans, are eaten when the seeds are small.  
They are also called string beans because of a fibrous string running the length of the pod, but most varieties grown now do not have that fibrous string.  
**Purple beans are so pretty –-- violet-purple outside and bright green inside with great flavor.**  

**We’re always growing lettuce.**  
Lettuce, Lactuca sativa, is a cultivated plant of the daisy family, Asteraceae.  
**Lettuce is a fairly hardy, cool-weather vegetable that thrives when the average daily temperature is between 60 and 70-degrees Fahrenheit.**  
**We always grow several varieties.**  

**In one garden along the fence we have lots of peas** --– one section for shelling peas, which need to be removed from their pods before eating, and another for edible pods, which can be eaten whole, such as our snap peas.  
They are best grown on supports to keep them off the ground and away from pests and diseases.  

**By early July every year, these peas are plump, and ready to be picked.**  
The pea, Pisum sativum, is an annual herbaceous legume in the family Fabaceae.  
**The pods can range in size from four to 15-centimeters long and about one-and-a-half to two-and-a-half centimeters wide.**  
**Each pod contains between two and 10-peas.**  

**The onions look wonderful too.**  
We planted a lot of white, yellow and red onions.  
**Onions are harvested later in the summer when the underground bulbs are mature and flavorful.**  
**I always look forward to the onion harvest!**  

Kale or leaf cabbage is a group of vegetable cultivars within the plant species Brassica oleracea.  
**They have purple or green leaves, in which the central leaves do not form a head.**  

**Look at our bed of kale – very pretty with ruffled leaves and a purple-green color.**  
**One cup of chopped kale has 134-percent of the recommended daily intake of vitamin-C --- that’s more than a medium orange, which only has 113-percent of the daily C requirement.**  

**Broccoli is a hardy vegetable of the cabbage family that is high in vitamins A and D.**  
**And, according to the National Agricultural Statistics Service, USDA, the average American eats more than four-pounds of broccoli a year.**  
**Because broccoli is a cold weather crop.**  
**The recent warmer weather causes it to bolt, or go to flower sooner, but these heads are looking terrific.**  

**Cauliflower is filled with nutrients.**  
**They hold plenty of vitamins, such as C, B, and K.**  
**Cauliflower is ready to harvest when the heads are six to eight inches in diameter.**  
**When picking, cut the stalk just below the head, leaving a stem of about two inches long.**

**Our cabbages are growing nicely.**  
**To get the best health benefits from cabbage, it’s good to include all three varieties into the diet – Savoy, red, and green.**  
Savoy cabbage leaves are ruffled and a bit yellowish in color.  

Here’s a perfect artichoke ready to pick.  
**Globe artichokes, Cynara scolymus, are popular in both Europe and the United States.**  
Artichokes are actually flower buds, which are eaten when they are tender.  

See how it grows on its stem?  
**When harvesting, always use sharp pruners and carefully cut them from the plant leaving an inch or two of stem.**  
**Artichokes have very good keeping qualities and can remain fresh for at least a week.**  

**There is also a lot of fresh and fragrant cilantro.**  
**Often known in the United Kingdom as coriander, cilantro comes from the plant Coriandrum sativum. ** 
**In the United States, the leaves of the plant are referred to as cilantro and the seeds are called coriander.**  
**Cilantro is also commonly known as Chinese parsley.**  

**Vicia faba, also known as the broad bean or fava bean is an ancient member of the pea family.**  
**They have a nutty taste and buttery texture.**  
**I always grow lots of fava beans.**  
**We used many fava beans from my garden at my 20-year plus party last week here at the farm.**

Basil, also called great basil, is a culinary herb of the family Lamiaceae.  
**Basil is native to tropical regions from central Africa to Southeast Asia.**  
It is a tender plant, and is used in cuisines worldwide.  
**Since basil grows in tropical climates, it grows well in hot weather.**  
**Actually, this plant can thrive in very warm temperatures, and it grows amazingly well up to 90 degrees Fahrenheit.**  

Also always growing here – parsley.  
This will find its way into my morning green juice.  
**Parsley is rich in vitamins K, C, and other antioxidants.**  
It has a bright, herbaceous, and slightly bitter taste.  

This is curly parsley.  
**This comes from the same family, but curly parsley leaves are thicker and ruffled.**  
Some also say its flavor is a bit stronger in curly parsley than in the flat-leaf varieties.

**Our herbs are planted in the center of the garden.**  
Thyme is an herb whose small leaves grow on clusters of thin stems.  
**It is a Mediterranean herb with dietary, medicinal, and ornamental uses.**  
Fragrant variegated thyme is green with white leaves.  
**It is delicious with fish or poultry and imparts a lemony flavor.**  

And here is Moises weeding the areas beneath our tomato plants.  
I like to use bamboo canes for my tomatoes.  
**They’re easy to buy in bulk, and can be found in a variety of sizes.**  
They should be seven to eight foot tall stakes that are at least an inch in diameter.  
Staking is the best way to ensure the plants get the support they need for the many vegetables they will produce this season.  

**Look at these beautiful young tomatoes.**  
There are already so many growing.  
**Most tomatoes are red, but other colors are possible, including green, yellow, orange, pink, black, brown, white and purple.**  
**We’ll be harvesting a lot of tomatoes later this summer.**  

We always extend the harvest season by re-planting in two-week successions.  
**Succession planting is the practice of following one crop with another to maximize a garden’s yield. It is an efficient use of gardening space and time.**  
**Everyone always asks what I do with all the vegetables I grow.**  
**I share them with my family, but I also love sharing the bounty with friends, colleagues, and my hardworking crew here at the farm.**  
**I provide fruits, vegetables, and eggs for magazine and video shoots.**  
**And, of course, all my birds get vegetables too.**  
I hope your gardens are doing well – share their progress with me in the section below.  


# en_2022_07-15

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_14

* From:【[Trimming the Summer House Hornbeam Hedge](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/trimming-the-summer-house-hornbeam-hedge.html)】

Pruning at my farm continues at the long hedge that runs in front of my Summer House and along the road behind my Winter House.

**The hornbeam, Carpinus, is deciduous and very fast-growing.**  
**In fact, it can grow about four to five feet per year.**  
I always keep a close eye on all the hornbeams.  
Earlier this week, the crew tackled the hornbeam hedges in front of my main greenhouse.  
It's quite a task to get all of them trimmed properly, but the end result is well worth the effort.  

Enjoy these photos.

Next on our long list of pruning projects is to prune the hornbeam hedge along the back of the Summer House and the Winter House.  
This is a European hornbeam hedge, Carpinus betulus.  
**Because it is planted on a gradual slope, it needs to be pruned using a step method.**  

It is quite pretty in this location, but it also serves as a good privacy barrier from the road.  
**The top and upper sides of a hedge are exposed to lots of light, so they grow more vigorously.**  

From this angle it is easy to see all the growth from the past year.  
**We trim these hornbeams annually.**  
**If left unpruned, hedges start to look tatty and lose their desired shape.**  

**These round hornbeams in front of my Summer House entrance also need trimming.**  

The European hornbeam is related to the beech tree, with a similar leaf shape;  
however, on the hornbeam, the leaves are actually smaller and more deeply furrowed.  
**They become golden yellow to orange before falling in autumn.**  

As with all the hornbeams, the crew does most of the pruning by hand.  
It takes longer, but it looks much better in the end.  
These are Okatsune 30-inch long Hedge Shears.  
**Okatsune shears are light and precise and come in a range of sizes.**  

Pasang does all he can from the ground first and works his way up.  

I prefer the straight edge finish that is done when using Japanese shears.  
**An important tip is to use the sharpest tools possible to avoid unnecessary damage and stress to the hedge.**  
**Their large leaves can turn brown if not cut properly.**  

**Here, the front of the hedge is trimmed – it’s looking better already.**  
**Carpinus betulus is a hornbeam native to Western Asia and central, eastern and southern Europe, including southern England.**  
Because of its dense foliage and tolerance to being cut back, this hornbeam is popularly used for hedges and topiaries.  

Here is a view looking up.  
**One can see what has been trimmed and what there is still left to do.**  
**Hornbeams do best in rich, moist, well-drained soils. ** 
**All this growth shows how healthy the soil is at the farm.**  

For the top of the hedge section, Chhiring and Pasang use our STIHL HLA 85 battery powered extended hedge trimmer.  
**It’s light, easy to maneuver and cuts extremely well.**  

**The blades of this STIHL HL85 also have double-sided cutting blades that cut in both directions.**

In this image, one can see the top going down the length of cut hornbeam – it is very level.  

And looking down, here are all the clippings ready to be raked and taken to the compost pile.  

This is the back of the hedge – also completely pruned.  

**And here is the finished front of the hedge – all neat and tidy.**  
Deer do eat hornbeams, but since the property is completely fenced, it isn’t a problem here at Cantitoe.  

**The hedge looks great from all sides.**  
**It is important to keep up with the care and maintenance of all plantings.**  
Proper pruning can remove any portions that have disease, fungi, and other types of decay.  
It also exposes the inner foliage to more sunlight and air circulation, which helps to reduce the chance of disease.  

The hornbeams opposite the long hedge were also pruned and groomed.  
Here is one finished side facing my Winter House courtyard.  


After the entire task is done, Chhiring and Pasang rake all the fallen leaves and branches.  
Chhiring uses a soft rake to carefully remove debris that has fallen into the pachysandra in front of the round hornbeams.  

Here, Pasang carries a load to the cage of the Hi-Lo.

One of our favorite tools here at the farm is our STIHL backpack blower.  
We’ve been using STIHL’s blowers for years.  
These blowers are powerful and fuel-efficient.  
**The gasoline-powered engines provide enough rugged power to tackle heavy debris while delivering much lower emissions.**  

And here is the front of my Summer House.  
It is always so nice to see these great hornbeams trimmed and sculpted.  
Next, it’s time for a big drink.  
**We’ve had a week without any rain.**  
**I hope some rain comes soon**, but in the meantime, our professional adjustable circular tripod sprinkler from Gilmour does an excellent job.  


# en_2022_07-13


## MarthaBlog_2022_07_13
* From:【[Picking Colorful and Fragrant Sweet Peas](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/picking-colorful-and-fragrant-sweet-peas.html)】

**The colorful and fragrant sweet pea flowers are blooming so beautifully at my Bedford, New York farm this season.**  

**The sweet pea, Lathyrus odoratus, is a garden classic - producing beautiful blossoms with the most amazing scent.**  
Sweet pea seeds can be sown into small pots of compost in autumn and overwintered indoors, or planted directly into the ground come spring.  
We planted ours along the fence in my vegetable garden and some on the fence of my flower cutting garden.  
**And, over the last couple of weeks we've picked bunches of gorgeous sweet-smelling flowers to decorate my home.**  

Enjoy these photos.  

**The old-fashioned varieties of sweet pea are grown for their vibrant colors and intense fragrances.**  
**Most sweet peas will begin blooming in late spring or early summer.**  

**This one is a bright salmon to peach color.**  
**Originating in the southwest of Italy and the islands of the Mediterranean, sweet pea has been cultivated for use in gardens since the 17th century.**  

The flowers feature one large, upright rounded petal, two narrow side petals, and two lower petals.  
**Luckily, the stems are sturdy enough to hold up their profuse flowers.**  
Here’s a light lavender and white variety.  

**We planted sweet peas along the fence of the vegetable garden.**  
**Sweet peas work well here, attracting bees and other pollinators needed for the vegetables.**  

**The leaves are pinnate with two leaflets and a terminal tendril, which twines around supporting plants and structures, helping the sweet pea to climb.**  

Here are the tendrils they use to grasp anything that’s a quarter-inch or less.  

**Sweet peas offer one of the widest color ranges in the plant kingdom, including crimson reds, navy blues, pastel lavenders, pinks, and the purest whites.**  
These colors are found as solid colors, bicolors, and streaked or flaked flowers.  

**To keep the vine productive, it’s a good idea to cut flowers frequently and remove the faded blossoms.**  
Some varieties tolerate heat better than others, so check the seed packets carefully when planting.  

This crisp white one grows along the fence of my flower garden.  
White sweet peas are very reliable performers.  
**As annuals, sweet peas thrive in full sun, although in warmer climates they do well in a location that receives partial sun, especially in the heat of the afternoon.**  

**Sweet peas prefer rich but well-drained soil.**  
**A slightly alkaline soil pH of about 7.5 is ideal for sweet peas.**  

Here in my Winter House are several freshly cut bunches of sweet peas.  

Once they are ready to be arranged, Enma removes each bunch and places them in a small tub of water keeping like colors together.  

**She gathers them one stem at a time holding them securely in one hand while she positions them with the other – blossoms faced out.**  

**Here are the most beautiful salmon colored sweet peas.**  

**After selecting a good amount of flowers, Enma cuts the stems with a very sharp scissor leaving them about six to eight inches long.**  
When trimming, always keep in mind the size of the container.  

**Then Enma places them in the vase of cool water – they look so beautiful with their green straight stems.**  

Here, one can see the stems with at least a few inches below the water line.  
For the longest vase life, pick sweet peas when there are at least two unopened flowers at the tip of a stem.  


Enma does the same with the other bunches, taking each flower and facing the open blooms outward so they look best.  
**While sweet peas fill any room with sweet fragrance, they are a short-lived cut flower, lasting only four to five days in a vase.**  

This variety is flecked and shows such pretty purple and white blossoms.  
The first sweet peas were introduced to Britain in 1699 when a Sicilian monk, Francis Cupani, sent seeds to Dr.Robert Uvedale, a teacher from Enfield, Middlesex.  
They became hugely popular in North America, both as garden plants and cut blooms.  
By the late 1800s, growers in the US shipped trainloads of sweet peas all over the country.  

Here is a bunch of solid colored pink sweet peas.  
**To prolong the cut flowers, change the water in the vase once or twice a day, and place the vase of flowers out of direct sunlight and away from drafts.**  

And here are the cut pink and white sweet peas.  

Once all cut, these flowers make a gorgeous arrangement –-- and I wish you could smell them;  
**the fragrance is intoxicating.**  
**I hope you are able to enjoy the beauty of some cut sweet pea flowers in your home this season.**

# en_2022_07-12

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_12

* From:【[Repainting My Outdoor Metal Furniture](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/repainting-my-outdoor-metal-furniture-2.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

**A new coat of paint can totally refresh and transform a piece of outdoor furniture.**  

Now that it's summer and we're able to do a lot more entertaining at home, I decided to have some of the crew work on a rather large project - repainting a number of outdoor metal furniture pieces one uniform color, Bedford Gray.  
Some of the items were old, weathered, and in need of attention, while others were simply the wrong shade or color.  
The first step was to designate a safe painting space.  
Then, the furniture pieces needed to be primed, dried, and finally painted with an oil-based enamel finish.  
**This project took several days to complete, but I am happy with the final results and every piece looks great.**  

Enjoy these photos.

**All the furniture to be painted was brought to the driveway in front of my Winter House carport.**  
These pieces are fine, but I wanted them all finished in my signature color, Bedford Gray.  

Some pieces were mismatched and in their original colors from when they were purchased.  

**And some of the pieces were a bit rusted and timeworn.**

In one corner of the driveway, we put up a pergola from one of my previous outdoor collections and covered it with plastic sheeting.  
**These plastic drop cloths come in a range of sizes and are available at most hardware stores.**  

Here’s Fernando securing the plastic to the frame using spring clamps.  
At the bottom, Fernando weighted the plastic covers with bricks.  

**Meanwhile, Carlos cleans all the furniture with a damp cloth, so the paint can be applied smoothly.**  
**Fortunately, the week’s weather forecast was perfect for this project.**  
**Ideally, temperatures should be between 50 degrees and 90 degrees Fahrenheit, and relative humidity below 85 percent.**  

Pete begins to prime the first chair.  
**It’s important to coat the furniture with a good quality metal primer and to coat everything completely as bare metal rusts quickly.**  
**It’s also a good idea to practice on a piece of scrap cardboard first to get the vertical and horizontal spraying movements consistent before painting the real piece.**  

**Pete puts several chairs together so as to conserve the primer and allow the spray to coat more than one chair at a time.**  
Always spray the object using an even side-to-side motion with each pass overlapping the spray pattern by about one-third.  

**For this job, we needed a strong air compressor.**  
**Air compressors work by forcing air into a container and pressurizing it and then pushing it out though the tank and the paint sprayer.**  

**The inside of this trough needed to be sanded first to create a smooth surface for better adhesion.**  

Here’s one chair all primed – in Bedford Gray.  

By afternoon, most of the pieces were also primed.  
**The primer dries very fast.**  

Next – paint.  
It’s crucial to use a high-quality oil-based spray paint specifically designed for outdoor use to prevent rust.  

**Fernando pours the paint into the sprayer’s reservoir.**  
**The color is just right.**  

And then one by one each piece is sprayed.  
**Always use a mask even when working outdoors.**  
**When spray painting indoors, always ventilate the room well by opening windows and doors.**  

When spray painting, use thin, multiple coats instead of one thick coat to get the best result.  

**Look how smooth this chair seat is after painting.**  

And here’s the trough all finished.  
**It looks so much better.**  

**The furniture is left to dry completely inside the carport for at least 24 hours.**  

**And once it’s dry, it’s ready to be used.**  
**Here are two newly painted benches in front of my Flower Room just around the corner from my carport.**  
**I think they look great in this space.**  
**I am excited to place all the furniture out for the season.**  
**Old pieces made to look like new** …  
it’s a good thing!  


# en_2022_07-11

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_11

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

* From:【[July Flowers in My Cutting Garden](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/july-flowers-in-my-cutting-garden.html)】

My flower cutting garden continues to produce beautiful blooms.  

**This cutting garden has developed so well over the last few seasons.**  
**I enjoy comparing its progress from year to year and seeing where I need to add more plants to improve the display.**  
**It takes a lot of time to maintain a flower cutting garden this large.**  
**We are constantly weeding and watering, particularly during these warm summer months.**  
**This time of year, I have many Shasta daisies, balloon flowers, Black-Eyed Susans, yarrow, sweet peas, and more.**  

Enjoy these photos.  

**All these flowers are thriving in my cutting garden** – there is always something new to see every time I walk through the beds.  
These are Shasta daisies.  
**I have an abundance of shasta daisies this season – they always look so cheerful, especially when planted in large groups.**  

Shasta daisy flowers provide perky summer blooms with the look of the traditional daisies along with evergreen foliage.  
**They are low maintenance and great for filling in bare spots in the landscape.**  

**These are the showy flowers of rudbeckia.**  
Rudbeckia’s bright, summer-blooming flowers give the best effect when planted in masses in a border or wildflower meadow.  

**In general, rudbeckias are relatively drought-tolerant and disease-resistant.**  
**Flower colors include yellow and gold, and the plants grow two to six feet tall, depending on the variety.**  

Here is one of many kinds of lilies that bloom in my flower garden.  
I also have lilies along my winding pergola, outside my Winter House kitchen and in the sunken garden behind my Summer House.  
My collection of lilies is a combination of Oriental, Asiatic, trumpet, and Orienpet lilies.  

**Lilies come in a variety of colors with multiple blooms per stem.**  

**I also have many different irises in this garden.**  
**Iris flowers can begin blooming in late winter to early spring.**  
Iris care is minimal once the growing iris is established.  
Iris flowers bloom in shades of purple, blue, white, and yellow and include many hybridized versions that are multi-colored.  

Lady’s mantle, Alchemilla vulgaris, grows along both sides of the main footpath of my cutting garden.  
**In late spring and early summer, the plant produces lovely chartreuse colored blooms.**  


Close to the footpath is this attractive Nasturtium.  
Nasturtium plants, Tropaeolum, are loved for their rich, saturated, jewel-toned colors.  
**Planted in the spring they are fast and easy to grow.**  
Nasturtium is a genus of about 80 species of annual and perennial herbaceous flowering plants.  
**It was named by Carl Linnaeus in his book Species Plantarum.**  
**These flowers can vary in shade, but the most popular versions are orange, yellow, pink, red, or mahogany.**  

**Nasturtium leaves are small to medium in size and round and broad in shape.**  
The flat, bright green leaves are waxy, pliable, have a few veins running throughout, and are connected to a central stem.  

These are the large leaves of Rodgersia – a genus of flowering plants in the Saxifragaceae family. **Rodgersia are herbaceous perennials originating from east Asia.**  
The common name is Roger’s Flower.  

Achillea millefolium, commonly known as yarrow, is a flowering plant in the family Asteraceae.  
**It is a hardy perennial with fernlike leaves and colorful blooms.**  
The large, flat-topped flower clusters are perfect for cutting and drying.  

**The flower clusters or corymbs are made up of dozens of tiny daisy-like florets.**  
**Here’s yarrow in light pink.**  
**Yarrow flower colors range from white and soft pastels to brilliant shades of yellow, red, orange, and gold.**  

**Butterfly weed is a bright orange showy native wildflower that’s easy to grow, cold hardy, and does well in poor, dry soils.**  
Long-lasting clusters of small, flat-topped flowers are crowned with a yellow, sun-kissed “corona” and **blooms from June through August**.  
**Butterfly weed is an important nectar source for Monarch butterflies and its leaves provide essential food for developing Monarch caterpillars.**  

**Many of the poppies are still going strong.**  
**Poppies require very little care, whether they are sown from seed or planted when young – they just need full sun and well-drained soil.**  

**Poppies are an attractive, easy to grow flower in both annual and perennial varieties, and they come in nearly every color of the rainbow.**  

Here is a poppy seed pod, which is what’s left on the stem once the flower blooms and the petals fall off.  
**As the seed heads turn brown with ripeness, it’s time to cut them and harvest the seeds.**  
One can tell when pods are ripe by shaking the stem.  
If the pod rattles, it’s ready.  

**There are still a few foxgloves here too.**  
Here is a tall foxglove plant, Digitalis purpurea.  
These add lovely vertical interest to any garden.  
**Foxglove flowers grow on stems which may reach up to six feet in height, depending on the variety.**

**The phlox is thriving in the garden.**  
**Phlox has superb heat and mildew resistance.**  
Phlox is a tall and upright grower that’s great for the back of the border, or even planted at the edge of the garden among the shrubs.  
**Phlox also comes in a range of colors from pure white to lavender to even red, and grows happily in most parts of the country.**  
**If properly planted and sited, phlox is largely pest and disease free too – a perfect perennial.**  

This is a balloon flower, Platycodon grandiflorus – a species of herbaceous flowering perennial plant of the family Campanulaceae, and the only member of the genus Platycodon.  
**It is native to East Asia and is also known as the Chinese bellflower or platycodon.**  
**The opened flowers resemble those of bellflowers, and while most are deep blue or purple, white and pink varieties are also available.**  

Balloon flowers get their name from the unopened buds, which swell up prior to opening and resemble little hot-air balloons.  

And growing on one side of the fence surrounding the garden are these dainty perennial sweet pea or everlasting pea flowers.  
**The sweet pea is a herbaceous climbing vine with beautiful bright flowers that grow up to 10 feet long.**  
**I hope your garden is also doing wonderfully this season.**  
**Share what blooms you are growing in the comments section below.**  
**Have a great week.**  


# en_2022_07-09

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_09

* From:【[A Special Celebration!](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/a-special-celebration.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

**Entertaining at my Bedford, New York farm is always so much fun, especially when I host momentous occasions.**  

**Yesterday, I invited more than 60 people for dinner to celebrate all those who have worked with me for 20-years or longer.**  
Our feast centered around an Argentinian theme with foods prepared on an asado grill by Chef Pablo Calandroni - whole salmon, rib eye steak, beef short ribs, pork spare ribs, sweetbreads, chicken, and morcilla sausages.  
My friend Chef Pierre Schaedelin of PS Tailored Events also prepared a variety of delicious fresh salads - Spanish criolla salad, black bean salad, three-color carrot slaw, potato salad, beet salad, and my daughter's flavorful chopped salad with corn and jalapeño.  
**Everything was so delicious, everyone went back for seconds and even thirds.**  
For dessert - refreshing fruit ice pops, shortbread cookies, and tres leches cupcakes.  

Here are some photos, enjoy.  

It was a beautiful summer evening for a party.  
For this gathering, I decided to have a sit-down dinner for all 64 guests.  
We used green and grayish tan linens and my Drabware plates for the long table.  

For the centerpieces, we placed potted herbs down the entire length of the table.  
**I bought the chairs years ago during my catering days – 450 wicker chairs and they still come in so handy for these large parties.**  
**Each longtime employee had a small gift from me at their place setting.**  

Here is my outdoor grounds crew foreman, Chhiring Sherpa, with his son, Mingmar, and his wife Pema.  
**This day was Chhiring’s actual 20th anniversary working with me at the farm.**  

**Video editor, Paul Delmiche, is another longtime colleague who started with me in our Westport television studio in 1997.**  
**Here he is with line producer, Jon Coniglio, who has also been with me for a number of years.**  

Here’s Lorna Aragon and her sister, Elizabeth.  
Lorna has been with me for more than 20-years – working with our flagship magazine, Living.  
Lorna oversaw the table setting for this event.  

**Many of you may recognize my longtime food editor, Sarah Carey, who has been with me for more than 20-years.**  
**Here she is with her wife, Maryann Vanderventer, who also worked with me on my television show.**  

**Before dinner I welcomed everyone to Cantitoe Corners and thanked all the longtime celebrants for their years of hard work and dedication to my farm, my company, and my brand.**  

**Not far from the table was the giant asado grill filled with so many delicious foods.**  
**The charcoal was lighted three hours earlier to get it perfectly hot for cooking.**  

**Asado chef, Pablo Calandroni, and his sous chef, Kevin Thomas, cut all the meats for the buffet as soon as they were done cooking.**  

**These chaffing dishes are heated with charcoal from the grill.**  
**Each one held a different meat – everything was so delicious.**  

**Here is a first helping – a little bit of everything cooked so perfectly.**  

**Kevin and Pablo stopped for this quick photo.**  
Be sure to see more of Pablo’s great feasts on his Instagram page @asado.561.  

**My executive manager, Dorian Arrich, smiles for this photo with Fernando Ferrari, who has worked for all my television and video programs and shoots for more than 25 years.**  

**The salads were all so beautiful and delicious.**  
**Chef Pierre used vegetables from my gardens to make them.**  
**We also had corn on the cob.**  

This is my daughter Alexis’s chopped salad with corn and jalapeño.  
**It takes a bit of time to dice all the ingredients, but it is so worth it.**  

And look at this gorgeous deep red beet salad.  
**The beets were harvested from my garden just the day before.**  

We also served cocktails – margaritas and sangria.  
**Here is our excellent wait staff.**  

And of course, we enjoyed lots of Martha’s Chard, my new chardonnay with 19Crimes.  
On the left is Snoop Dogg’s Cali Rose, also a big favorite.  

For dessert, ice pops served in individual cups – currant, black raspberry, coconut, peach, lemon, and red raspberry.  
**It was hard to choose just one.**  

**Sarah Carey made these delectable tres leches cupcakes with candied orange slices.**  

**And my favorite brown butter shortbread cookies – dessert was so perfect.**  

**Each employee gift was wrapped in the same blue and white of the Argentinian flag to go along with our theme.**  

I gave Bandolier phone cases – the original luxury crossbody leather case.  
**Practical and functional, I’ve been using them for several years and love all the different styles and colors.**  
**It was a perfect evening and perfect party with friends.**  
**And, you’ll soon be able to watch me make some of the dishes from this party on Roku!**  


# en_2022_07-08

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_08

* From:【[Preparing for a Special Party at My Farm](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/preparing-for-a-special-party-at-my-farm.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

**Today at my Bedford, New York farm, I'm hosting a very special party to celebrate all those who have worked with me for 20-years and more.**  

With so much to do, everyone pitched in yesterday to get everything ready.  
**Among the many tasks on our list - mow the lawns, weed the garden beds, mulch the carriage roads, harvest the vegetables, bathe the donkeys, and make the tablecloth and centerpieces for the outdoor sit-down dinner.**  
**We got so much done and fortunately this week's weather is fantastic.**  

Here are some photos, enjoy.  

My peafowl have the perfect “bird’s eye view” of all the party preparations going on at the farm.  
Here are three sitting atop one of the chickens coops “taking it all in.”  

The courtyard is where everyone will gather – it is looking so pretty with the large potted sago palms on the cobblestone courtyard.  

**All the surrounding areas near the stable are freshly groomed.**  
**Here’s Domi mowing the lawn in front of the peafowl and goose enclosures.**  

**Nearby, my stable manager, Helen, wipes down all the stall doors.**  

**My vegetable garden is looking so lush and green.**  
**It was also cleaned and weeded.**  

**These beets were harvested early in the day.**  
The beetroot is the taproot of the beet plant, and is often called the table beet, garden beet, red or golden beet or simply… beet.  
**Beets are highly nutritious and very good for maintaining strong cardiovascular health.**  
**It’s low in calories, contains zero cholesterol, and is rich in folates, vitamin-A, B-complex, and antioxidants.**  

**Vicia faba, also known as the broad bean or fava bean is an ancient member of the pea family.**  
**They have a nutty taste and buttery texture.**  
**I always grow lots of fava beans.**  
A trug bucket full is also picked for the party.  

**And here’s a bowl of fresh eggs from my gorgeous and most productive chickens.**  

Herbs are potted for use as our centerpieces.  
**It is always nice to utilize natural elements to decorate the tables.**  
**Green is also a theme color for the table setting.**  
It will go so nicely with my Drabware dishes.  


**Dawa is weeding the perennial garden across from the chicken coops** --– it’s all hands on deck for this special gathering.  

**And of course, the donkeys are getting bathed for the occasion.**  

**Truman “TJ” Junior and Clive don’t seem to mind – these baths cool them down on a warm summer’s day.**  

Here’s Domi carefully weed whacking around the antique posts of the Asian pear espalier.  
**I bought these posts from China.**  
Originally, they were used as grape supports in a valley that was going to be dammed and flooded to create a reservoir.  
**Now, I use these beautiful posts for various projects around my farm --– including this row of espaliered fruits**.  

**Inside my Flower Room kitchen, Chef Pierre Schaedelin from PS Tailored Events, cuts the beets into bite-sized pieces for a delicious salad.**  

**Here’s sous chef Moises carrying a tray filled with citrus --– ready for the cocktails and fruit popsicles.**  

**Phurba puts fresh mulch around the boxwood in the long Boxwood Allée.**  
**Mulch is a layer of material applied to the soil surface.**  
**It helps to conserve soil moisture, improve fertility and health of the soil, reduce weed growth, and enhance the visual appeal of the area.**  
All the organic mulch we use is made right here at the farm.  

**The peafowl have moved for a closer look --- here they are on top of the mulch filled dump truck.**  

**Here, Chhiring, who is celebrating his 20 years with me today, is burning all the pesky weeds that grow in between the cobblestone pavers.**  

Lorna unrolls the fabric to make our handmade tablecloths.  
I chose this dark gray color --– it will look so pretty with the Drabware and herb centerpieces.  

**And here’s a tray of homemade currant fruit popsicles ready for the freezer.**  

**We’re almost set for our fun summertime party!**  
**And I think the peafowl approve.**  
**This peahen is sitting on the rim of a giant stone birdbath in front of my Stable Office building --– she is so interested and curious.**  
**I’ll be sure to share more photos of this party in my next blog – stay tuned.**  

# en_2022_07-07

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_07

* From:【[Summer Pruning for My Hornbeam Hedges](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/summer-pruning-for-my-hornbeam-hedges.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

**My tall English hornbeam hedges always look so beautiful after a fresh pruning.**  

This week, my outdoor grounds crew trimmed the hornbeam hedges in front of my main greenhouse --- the hedges surrounding part of my formal lily garden beds and the large sculpted hedge nearby.  
**Botanically known as Carpinus betulus, the hornbeam is a fast growing deciduous tree that can grow up to several feet per year.**  
**I like to maintain the hedges using a traditional European style of pruning, so they have a nice, sculpted appearance.**  
**This means, it’s crucial that they be trimmed regularly, so they don’t look overgrown and unruly.**  

Here are some photos.  

**This tall hornbeam hedge grows at the edge of the gravel topped parking area directly in front of my main greenhouse.**  
**It is quite pretty here, but serves primarily as a privacy and noise barrier from the road.**  
**This photo was taken before any pruning began – one can see all the lush new growth.**  

**With proper care, the hornbeam grows quickly, so it is important to trim and sculpt it regularly.**  
**Hornbeam is also very hardy and frost resistant, which is good in this area.**  

**Carpinus betulus is native to Western Asia and central, eastern, and southern Europe, including southern England.**  
Because of its dense foliage and tolerance to being cut back, this hornbeam is popularly used for hedges and topiaries.  
**Hornbeams are often confused with the common beech because of their similar leaves;**  
**however, the hornbeam leaves are actually smaller and more deeply furrowed than beech leaves.**  
The leaves are deciduous and alternate, with serrated margins.  

**Looking inside the hedge, the hornbeam has pale grey bark with vertical markings.**  
All of these hornbeams are planted in a very straight line just a couple feet apart.  
**One can see the sturdy branches and how they grow outward and slightly upward.**  

**The crew does most of the pruning by hand.**  
**Everyone uses Japanese Okatsune shears specially made for trimming hedges.**  
**These shears are user friendly, and come in a range of sizes.**  

**It is more time consuming to trim these hedges by hand, but it is also more exact and provides straight clean cuts – very important when sculpting formal hedges.**  

**We trim the hornbeams every year around this time.**  
**Pasang keeps the shears close to shoulder level.**  
This allows the best control.  
He also holds the shears closer to the base of the blades.  

**Here, one can see what has been cut and what hasn’t.**  

It doesn’t take long for the ground to fill with clippings --– and this is just from the front of the hedge.  

Once the front of the hedge is done, our Hi-Lo is moved in, so Pasang could trim the uppermost sections and the top.  
**The Hi-Lo is very useful, and because the hedge is accessible from the parking area, it always comes in handy for this task.**  

Manning the Hi-Lo is my outdoor grounds crew foreman, Chhiring Sherpa.  
**He’s been working with me here at the farm for 20-years!**  
He positions the Hi-Lo and its cage and makes sure Pasang can safely reach what he is pruning.  

The top of this hedge section is trimmed perfectly level using our STIHL HLA 85 battery powered extended hedge trimmer.  
It’s light, easy to maneuver and cuts extremely well.  

**Once an area is trimmed, Pasang uses a soft rake to clear the top of any cut branches and leaves.**  

**Next, he uses a long bamboo stake to ensure the hedges are all level and equal in height.**  

From above, the tops look flat with well-trimmed corners.  

Here is a side view showing how the front is sculpted with the taller sections protruding just a bit.  
**It is looking very straight and square.**  

And here is the finished hedge – trimmed beautifully.  
I can’t believe how much these grow every year.  

Across the gravel road is the hornbeam hedge surrounding my formal white lily and hosta garden.  
Chhiring uses orange twine along the top of the hedge, so it can be trimmed straight.  

**Here, Chhiring uses a level to check that everything is perfectly even from one end to the other.**  

**Here is a view once it is pruned.**  
The dark green of the hornbeams look so nice in contrast to the lighter green of the lily foliage and hostas in the foreground.  

**At the side entrance leading to my berry bushes and rose garden**, I decided to create a more sculpted top, so this bit will remain untouched while it grows. **It will look so nice once we shape it.**  

And here’s the other side.  
**Look how lush this garden is --– I will be sure to share more photos once the lilies are blooming.**  
Next to be done is the long European hornbeam hedge that runs along the back of my Summer House and Winter House.  
**It’s a busy summer here at working farm –-- there’s always lots to do, but the gardens, allées, and groves are all looking so wonderful.**  


# en_2022_07-06

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_06

* From:【[Maintaining My American Beech Tree Grove](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/maintaining-my-american-beech-tree-grove.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

**It's so important to keep up with the maintenance and care of the many trees here at my Bedford, New York farm.**  
**My grove of American beech trees, Fagus grandifolia, is undergoing a soil treatment program to make sure they continue to thrive.**  

**As many of you know, I tour the grounds every day and keep track of what needs pruning, feeding, and mulching throughout the year.**  
Early last month, I noticed something wasn't quite right with my American beech trees.  
**The trees just didn't look as vibrant or as full.**  
**I also knew there was a relatively new beech leaf disease that is spreading rapidly through the Northeast killing both mature American beeches and saplings.**  
I called on True Nature tree and soil expert, Sebastian “Rocky” Camarillo, to take a look right away.  
**Rocky assessed the trees, took many soil samples for testing, and started a thorough feeding plan.**  
**Yesterday, Rocky came back to see how they were doing.**  

Here are some photos, enjoy.  

**This is my grove of American beech trees.**  
**This grove is located at the east end of my long Boxwood Allee not far from the carriage road leading to my hayfields.**  
**This photo was taken last fall when my American beech tree grove looked lush and healthy.**  

**This spring, I noticed the trees were getting bare.**  
**I was concerned they had gotten the beech leaf disease that’s been plaguing trees across the country.**  
**The disease, which was first spotted in northeastern Ohio, causes parts of leaves to turn leathery and branches to wither and then kill a tree within six to 10 years.**  
**I definitely needed to make sure these beautiful specimens survived.**  

**True Nature owner, Rocky Camarillo, came to the farm last month and noticed there was clearly something wrong.**  

**Rocky took many samples of soil from around the trees for testing.**  
**Soil helps regulate the water, supports biodiversity, filters pollutants, provides support, and cycles nutrients.**  
**Soil tests are available at garden shops and online.**  
**It is a good idea to test one’s garden soil every three to five years.**  

**And then he treated the roots around every tree in the grove.**  
**It is crucial to feed the roots and the soil in order to feed the trees.**  
Rocky used a solution containing nitrogen, iron, sulfur, magnesium, manganese, boron, and zinc and went all the way out just past the drip-line of every tree.  

**Unfortunately, the leaves looked withered and many had not grown.**  

**Held up to the sunlight, the leaves also showed dark bands --– a sign of the beech leaf disease.**  
**An invasive nematode is believed to be responsible for disease.**    
**These microscopic worms are present in the leaves and buds of infected beech trees.**  
**Hopefully the added nutrients could strengthen the tree and fight the disease.**  

**In the weeks following that first treatment, I already noticed a little improvement.**  
**Rocky returned to the farm yesterday to check on the grove.**  

**While many of the leaves still looked diseased, new growth showed green, smooth, healthy leaves.**  
**The trees were doing better, but the soil still needed some more nutrients.**  
The soil tests showed a low CEC, or Cation exchange capacity, a property of soil that describes its capacity to supply nutrients for plant uptake.  

Rocky’s son, Eric, puts together the AirSpade – a hose attachment for a compressor that can shoot air and uncover sensitive tree roots without harming them.  

**Using the AirSpade, Rocky clears the area around the tree’s base.**  
The trunk base, where it widens, is called the root flare or root collar or root crown.  
**This is a key area on any tree.**  
The rule of thumb when planting trees is to be sure the tree is “bare to the flare.”  

Rocky also cuts any roots that are wrapped too tightly against the flare roots.  

This tree now has a well-exposed flare.  

**Next, Rocky uses the AirSpade to make holes around the tree.**  
Rocky does this in many locations under the canopy and all the way out just past the drip-line of every tree.  
The drip-line is the area directly located under the outer circumference of the tree branches.  
When the tree canopy gets wet, any excess is shed to the ground along this drip-line.  
**This is also known as a tree’s critical root zone or root protection zone.**  

Meanwhile, Eric mixes a solution of compost and biochar, which is the lightweight black residue, made of carbon and ashes.  

**He then adds bokashi, a fermented organic fertilizer that contains beneficial microorganisms and nutrients.**  
**Bokashi is different from compost because it uses fermentation to break organic waste down and compost uses decomposition.**  

Here, Rocky mixes the elements together.  

**And then Freddy pushes generous amounts of the mixture into each hole around the tree.**  

**Each hole goes down at least a foot deep into the soil.**  

**The next step is to spray the surface soil with fertilizer.**  
The same liquid fertilizer he used in his first visit.  

**Freddy sprays the fertilizer generously around each tree.**  
**We’re also expecting some rain this week which will hopefully help the tree roots absorb the new nutrients.**  

**The trio stopped for a quick photo – here’s Rocky, Freddy, and Eric.**  

**Rocky will be back again before the summer is over to check on this grove and all the other American beech trees around the farm, including the purple columnar beech trees around my pool, the fastigiate beech trees outside my Winter House, and the weeping copper beech trees.**  
**I am looking forward to seeing these trees look even better in the weeks ahead.**  
**I will keep you all updated – stay tuned.**  

# en_2022_07-05

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_05
* From:【[What's Flowering at Skylands](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/whats-flowering-at-skylands-2.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  


I hope you all had a lovely Independence Day weekend.  
**Here in the Northeast, we had excellent weather at my Bedford, New York farm and up at Skylands, my home in Maine, where there are many flowers now in bloom.**  

**I love Maine - for me, it is a magical place and I always wish I could spend more time there.**  
In May, I go up to carry out my annual task of planting the large ornamental urns and planters that adorn the exterior of my home.  
**And later during the summer I go up there again to spend a few weeks with family and friends.**  **Unfortunately, I don't always get to see all the beautiful flowers that blossom at Skylands, but Cheryl DuLong, who helps me care for Skylands, and Wendy Norling, one of my gardeners, keep me updated by sending photographs from time to time.**  

**Here's a look at what's been blooming over the last couple of weeks, enjoy.**  

**The garden in the center of my circular driveway at Skylands is so lush this time of year.**  
It is planted with hay-scented ferns, purple smoke bushes, and spruce trees, Picea orientalis ‘Skylands’.  
**When I found this variety**, I just had to get many to plant up here at MY Skylands.  

This columbine plant, Aquilegia, is blooming on the edge of the Council Circle where friends and family love to gather.  
Columbine is an easy-to-grow perennial that offers seasonal interest throughout the year.  
**Columbines aren’t particular about soil as long it’s well-draining and not too dry.**  
**It blooms in a variety of colors and forms, which emerge from its attractive dark green foliage.**  
**The bell-shaped flowers are also a favorite to hummingbirds and may be used in cut-flower arrangements as well.**  

**Here’s another columbine in dark purple and white.**  

**The woodland up near my lost pools is filled with beautiful moss.**  
**Mosses are small, non-vascular flowerless plants that typically form dense green clumps or mats, often in damp or shady locations.**  
**Moss is a slow growing wild plant that should never be harvested in large amounts --– in fact, it is illegal to take any moss from national forests without permission.**  
**Whenever we use moss, we are always very conscious to return it to the forest once the season is over, so it can regenerate and flourish.**  

**Calendula has daisy-like bright orange or yellow flowers and pale green leaves.**  
**Commonly called the pot marigold, Calendula officinalis, the calendula flower is historically used for medicinal and culinary purposes.**  
**Like most herbs, calendulas are adaptable and do not require a lot of maintenance.**  
**They can be grown in containers or in the garden bed with full sun to shade conditions.**  

**Both my herbaceous peonies and my tree peonies are finished blooming at Bedford, but they’re looking wonderful at Skylands.**  
The peony is any plant in the genus Paeonia, the only genus in the family Paeoniaceae.  

**Here is a gorgeous large white peony flower.**  
**Herbaceous peony blooms range from simple blossoms to complex clusters.**  

**Wendy captured this image of the Nicotiana --– a genus of herbaceous plants and shrubs of the family Solanaceae that is indigenous to the Americas, Australia, southwest Africa and the South Pacific.**

**Iris flowers bloom in shades of purple, blue, white and yellow and include many hybridized versions that are multi-colored.**  

**Also looking very vibrant right now is our Astilbes.**  
**Astilbes are wonderful shade perennials, known for their dark green foliage and plume-like blossoms.**  

**These lupine flowers are attractive and spiky, reaching one to four feet in height.**  
**Lupine flowers may be annual and last only for a season or perennial, returning for a few years in the same spot in which they were planted.**  
The lupine plant grows from a long taproot and loves full sun.  
**The flowers are produced in dense or open whorls on an erect spike, each flower about one to two centimeters long.**  
The pea-like flowers have an upper standard, or banner, two lateral wings, and two lower petals fused into a keel.  

**Alliums are also growing at Skylands.**  
Allium species are herbaceous perennials with flowers produced on scapes.  
**They grow from solitary or clustered bulbs and come in a broad palette of colors, heights, bloom times and flower forms.**  
**They will grow in most any soil, as long as it is well-drained.**  
**And they love sunlight and will perform best when planted in full sun.**  

**These little ferns are growing out of the side of the cliff walk.**  
**They’re called common rockcap ferns – a native evergreen fern found in moist rocky areas.**  

**Heliotrope is a plant of the borage family, cultivated for its fragrant purple or blue flowers, which are used in perfume.**  

**This is Mountain Laurel. This shade-tolerant North American shrub has beautiful flowers that bloom in late spring and early summer.**  
**A close relative of rhododendrons and azaleas, it’s a great option for shady gardens.**  
It’s also evergreen, so after the blooms have faded, its leathery deep green foliage continues to add beauty to any space.  

**On my large terrace, Cheryl took this photo of one of the agaves we planted just a few weeks ago.**  
**Agaves are exotic, deer-resistant, drought-tolerant, and make wonderful container plants.**  
**It’s not easy dealing with giant, prickly agave plants.**  
**One must be very careful of one’s eyes, face, and skin whenever planting them.**  

Clematis is a genus of about 300 species in the buttercup family Ranunculaceae.  
T**he name Clematis comes from the Greek word “klematis,” meaning vine.**  
**Clematis, pronounced KLEH-muh-tis, are native to China and Japan and known to be vigorous growers.**  

The hellebores are still going strong in Maine.  
I’ve had hellebores in my gardens for many years.  
Hellebores are members of the Eurasian genus Helleborus – about 20 species of evergreen perennial flowering plants in the family Ranunculaceae.  
**They blossom during late winter and through spring for up to three months.**  
**Hellebores are widely grown for decorative purposes because they are easy-to-grow and are able to resist frost.**  
It is common to plant them on slopes or in raised beds in order to see their flowers, which tend to nod.  

These are the flowers of the golden chain tree at the little chapel at Skylands.  
Laburnum, sometimes called golden rain or golden chain, is a genus of two species of small trees in the subfamily Faboideae of the pea family Fabaceae.  
**It has golden-yellow flowers that grow 10 to 20 inches in length.**  
**but beware – all parts of the tree contain cytisine and are highly toxic to humans and pets.**  

And here’s a view that never gets tiring.  
**Taken through the woods, this view looks at Seal Harbor and Sutton’s Island in the distance.**  
**I can’t wait to return to Skylands for my next visit.**  
**Thanks for the photos, Wendy and Cheryl!**  


# en_2022_07-02

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_02

* From:【[The First Dahlias of the Season](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/the-first-dahlias-of-the-season.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

The dahlias are growing so nicely this season, and some are already beginning to show off those colorful flowers that bloom from midsummer right through the first frost.  

The dahlia garden is tucked behind my vegetable greenhouse in an area exposed to full sun and protected from strong winds.  
My dahlias are from Floret, a family farm and floral design studio in the State of Washington.  
We also have some from Swan Island Dahlias in Oregon, a family owned business and the largest and leading dahlia grower in the United States.  
And, a selection comes from The Flower Hat, based in Bozeman, Montana.  

Enjoy these photos of some of the season's first dahlia blooms and have a lovely July 4th weekend.  

**Dahlias grow more blooms when they get at least six to eight hours of direct sunlight per day.**  
**This spot was previously used for growing grapes, but it has now turned out to be a perfect place for our dahlias.**  

Dahlia plants have slender erect stems which are not always capable of holding up the large flowers, so they must be well-supported.  
This year we used bamboo stakes and jute twine.  
The twine is looped around the bamboo, so the flower stems can grow between the strands.  

**The array of flower colors, sizes, and shapes is astounding.**  
**Dahlias come in white, shades of pink, red, yellow, orange, shades of purple, and various combinations of these colors – every color but true blue.**  
Do you know… in the 19th century, a London newspaper offered a pound, or a little more than a dollar, to the first breeder to create a blue dahlia?  
Interestingly, the reward was never claimed, but there have been many attempts that are near-blue.  
**Like many flower varieties, there is also no pure black variety—only dark red and dark purple.**  

**Dahlias are named after 18th-century Swedish botanist Anders Dahl.**  
**He actually categorized dahlias as a vegetable because of their edible tubers.**  
**The tubers are said to taste like a mix between potatoes and radishes.**  

Dahlia plant leaves grow opposite each other and are simple to pinnately compound with segments that are ovate to oblong to lanceolate in shape.  
The leaf margins may be lobed or dentate.  
**Leaves may be green, reddish-purple, or purple-black depending on the variety.**  

**Currently, there are about 42 species of dahlia, with hybrids commonly grown as garden plants.**  
A member of the Asteraceae family of dicotyledonous plants, some of its relatives include the sunflower, daisy, chrysanthemum, and zinnia.  

This cactus variety is called ‘Park Princess’ with tightly rolled rich, vibrant pink petals.  
It is a prolific re-bloomer and an excellent cut flower.  

**Dahlias are classified according to flower shape and petal arrangement.**  

This is a single dahlia with just one row of petals surrounding the center disc.  
They range from a charming single, daisy-like flower to the popular double varieties which can be two-inch-pompons to 12-inch dinner plate size.  
They are divided into 10 groups:  
single, anemone, collarette, waterlily, decorative, fall, pompon, cactus, semi-cactus, and miscellaneous.  

Pompon dahlias yield masses of intricate, fully double blooms measuring up to two-and-a-half inches across.  
**This dahlia is a pretty light salmon color.**  

**Dahlias thrive in rich, well-drained soil with a pH level of 6.5 to 7.0 and slightly acidic.**  

**The majority of dahlia species do not produce scented flowers or cultivars, but they are brightly colored to attract pollinating insects.**  

**Dahlias are very attractive to bees and hummingbirds.**  

Here is an elegant dahlia which produces large blossoms with fully double, slender, deep pink petals with creamy throats that produce a frilled effect-hence the name Fimbriata meaning frilly.  

**The genus Dahlia is native to the high plains of Mexico.**  
Some species can be found in Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador & Costa Rica as well as parts of South America where it was introduced.  
**This lavender-pink dahlia also has frilled petals.**  

**This dahlia is creamy yellow with a bold yellow center – a lovely and perfectly formed bloom.**  

**And here is one in dark burgundy.**  

This dahlia is named ‘Bashful’ with its dark burgundy petals, hot pink tips, and golden stamens in the center of the flower.  
**The three-inch flower blooms on a plant that grows to two-and-a-half feet by the end of the season.**  
This is a great dahlia for bedding, containers, and cut flowers.  

Dahlias are herbaceous perennials, but often grown as annuals.  
**We used to dig up our dahlias at the end of the season and then replant them in the spring.**  
**The key to maintaining dahlia tubers for the winter is making sure they stay dry, have good air circulation, and are in a cool, dark spot.**  
This past winter, we covered them with bales of hay to protect them from the winter elements – and it worked.  
Click here to see the blog on how we protected our dahlias.  

This dahlia bud is just about to open.  
**When the flowers grow, they emerge small and pale green at first.**  
**And gradually they get larger and more detailed.**  

**Dahlias produce an abundance of wonderful flowers throughout early summer and again in late summer until the first frost.**  
**I am looking forward to many arrangements.**  

Many of you often These gorgeous flowers were used for a recent photo shoot.  
**The color combinations look so pretty in these glass vessels.**  
When arranging, always strip off all the leaves that would be below the water line in the vase.  
This is true for all flower arrangements, not just dahlias.  
**When leaves stay underwater, they decay and release bacteria that shorten the vase life of the flowers.**  
**And change the water daily so they look fresh and last longer.**  
**These dahlias should last through the holiday weekend.**  


# en_2022_07-01

## MarthaBlog_2022_07_01

* From:【["Christmas in July" on QVC 2022](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/07/christmas-in-july-on-qvc-2022.html)】

> **Note**  
> The following is copied and pasted.  

If you have some free time this weekend it’s never too early to start planning and prepping for the holiday season.

Recently on QVC, we celebrated "Christmas in July" with some of my newest decorations.  
I hope you were able to catch some of my appearances - I was on from early morning to late at night, joining LIVE right from my Bedford, New York farm talking with various hosts about my festive ornaments, figures, candles, tabletop trees, wines, and of course, the day's TSV - my Color Change Globe Light Strands.  
My entire home studio living room was lit up and filled with cheerful lights and pieces.  

Enjoy these photos, and be sure to take a look at all my holiday offerings on the QVC website.  

Here I am in my studio living room surrounded by lots of my newest holiday items for QVC.  
**We spent an entire day – 24-hours – celebrating my Collection. ** 
**It’s a lot of work, but always fun.**  

**Our tree looks so pretty this year.**  
**Look at all the glistening ornaments.**  
As part of my Collection, I am offering 13-piece Tree Decor Kits – complete with stars, wreaths, beaded birds, and metallic bursts.  
Buy one set, two, or even three and use them on your own tree or give away as gifts.  

Here is one of the beaded stars included in the kit.  

And here is one of the metallic bursts – they really do brighten up the tree and add a nice variety of decorations all in one group.  

This season, one can also get a set of six of these Metallic Feathered Birds with clips.  
As many of you know, I love birds, and these make such a nice addition to the holiday decor.  
**They come in silver or gold.**  

On my mantel are my Glittered Leaf Flower Lights.  
These lights come in six-foot long strands.  

**They can run for 266 hours and have a multi-function timer.**  

I decorated the mantel with my lights, flocked trees, and my popular flameless candles.  

This is my 16-inch Down Swept Flocked Tabletop Tree with 30 battery-operated LED lights.  
Place it on the mantel, bookcase, or table and decorate it with clip-on birds.

Everyone loves these Cable Knit Flameless Candle Pillars.  
**These are ivory, but they also come in Bedford gray and red.**

I also offer sets of two Glittered Holiday Tree Pillars in six-inch and nine-inch sizes.  
**These are white, but they also come in silver, champagne, and gold.**  
And they run on a multi-timer remote control.  

These birds come in a set of six and are made of blown glass on easy to use clips.  
**They look so pretty perching on your holiday tree branches.**  

Use my Jingle Bell Star Ornaments as part of your gift decor – attach to the bow and make them even more special.  

And the day’s TSV is my Color Change Globe Light Strands in silver or gold.  
I have them all over the room.

On my windowsill are these cheerful flat jeweled pedestal trees which can be swept up or down for display.  
And look, my TSV Color Change Globe Lights can be positioned around the base of the trees for a more festive effect.  

My TSV lights can also be mixed with holiday ornaments and placed in a cloche – look how festive they are.

**Drape the lights on your logs when the fireplace is not being used.**  
**It adds a beautiful look, especially at night.**  

This is one of a pair of Tinsel Fur Penguins.  
My Color Change Globe Lights look so fanciful used as a necklace.  

Place the pair on pedestals – a large one looks up as the other smaller penguin looks down.  

And don’t forget the wine.  
Order this for yourself or give as a gift.  
This wine set includes a choice of three 750-ml bottles of wine and three gift bags.  
The wine selections are Spencer Family Sauvignon Blanc, Bayshore Pinot Grigio, Monarch Glen Merlot, and Sierra Trails Zinfandel.  

And, because it’s “Christmas in July” – why not light up some beautiful summer roses?  
**Place them around the smaller vase containing the flowers, and then put in a larger glass vessel.** **These lights can be used in so many different ways in any season.**  
**We had so much fun talking about these holiday decorations.**  
**I hope you visit the website to see more of my new offerings.**  
It may be July now, but the holidays will be here before you know it.  