# en_2022_06-09

## 
* From:【[]()】

# en_2022_06-08

## MarthaBlog_2022_06_07
* From:【[Preparing for the Season's First Garden Tour](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/preparing-for-the-seasons-first-garden-tour.html)】

Here at my Bedford, New York farm this morning,  
I am welcoming a group of more than 30 guests to view my late spring gardens.  
With so much to do, everyone pitched in yesterday to get everything ready for the first tour of season.  
Among the many tasks on our list – polish the silver, wash the glasses, weed the garden beds, edge the carriage road, pick flowers, clean the fountains, and tend to the many outdoor pooted plants.  
Fortunately, Mother Nature cooperated – it was a beautiful day and the farm looks gorgeous.  
…   
After more than two years,  
I am finally able to open my farm for a select number of private walking tours to view the gardens.  
Most of them are conducted in late spring and early summer.  
It takes a lot of work to get the farm ready for these events – there are so many details to cover.  
Look closely and one can see Phurba weed whacking the newly mowed all allée between my horse paddocks.  
All the garden beds and tree pits are weeded and mulched.  
This Japanese maple is planted next to what call my Stewartia Garden outside my Tenant House – aptly named because I have several Stewartia trees in this large bed.  
And, do you know why I love Stewartia trees?  
My last name is “Stewart” after all.  
All the lawns are mowed and raked.  
This is my party lawn soccer field.  
My grandson, Truman, loves to play soccer here when he visits.  
Located between my long pergola and my pool, it is a beautiful, flat, and expansive space for lots of summertime games.  
Up on my terrace parterre, Phurba cleans out the fountains.  
This is one of two hand-casted antique fountains I purchased many years ago and finally installed in 2018.  
They look so nice on this terrace and all the visiting birds love to bathe in them.  
Here, Pete uses a hoe to carefully hand edge the carriage road and create straight lines.  
Look how nice the carriage road is after a little edging.  
After Pete edged, Fernado follows behind to rake the debris.  
Meanwhile, inside my Winter House, Carlos “dos” is busy at the sink cleaning and polishing the silver.  
Look how these trays shine once they are done.  
Linen napkins are pulled, ironed, and placed nicely on silver trays so they are ready to distribute.  
Glasses are washed, wipe dry, and also placed on a tray – any chores that can be completed ahead of time are done the day before, so there is as little rushing around as possible the day of the event.  
Potted plants are brought out of the greenhouse and displayed on my plant stand in the kitchen courtyard.  
Arranging potted plants is a great and inexpensive way to decorate both indoor and outdoor and out.  
More plants are placed on this plant stand – everything is also watered ahead, so pots are not dripping when guest arrive.  
My new lead peacock grifted to me by my friend, antiques expert Vincent Manzo, is positioned and ready to greet visitors.  
Enma cuts bucket of fresh roses for flower arrangements.  
I adore roses and have grown them for more than 25-years.  
Right now, my roses are blooming all over the farm – all with their colorful petal formations and beautiful fragrances.  
And look at these beautiful rose blooms.  
It is one of my favorite climbing varieties – Rosa ‘Veilchenblau’ – a mauve hybrid multiflora rose cultivar and the best known violet rambler, ‘Blue Rosaile’ and ‘Violet Blue’.  
The cultivar was bred by Hermann Kiese in Germany in 1909.  
The Veilchenblau roses are stunning on my long and winding pergola.  
My orchard surrounding the pool has more than 200 fruit trees.  
All the square tree pits are also weeded and the lawns mowed.  
Earlier this season, we expanded these tree pits to keep the mowers at a safe distance, so branches are not disturbed.  
My new yew table in the pavilion outside my pool is wiped down and the chairs are all dusted clean.  
And here’s Fernando doing what we call “dragging” the roads.  
We created this special device to rake the gravel, so it is even and picks up any debris along the way.  
This is done every couple of weeks to keep the roads looking neat and tidy.  
The bag on the rakes is used to keep them weighted and touching the surface.  
It is made from four soft garden rakes attached to a wooden frame.  
It is crucial to maintain gravel roads, so water can flow properly during storms.  
Fernando drives the four miles of carriage road around the property several times at the end of the day.  
Look at the carriage road after it is raked.  
This section is right in front of my Winter House.  
When maintaining a road It is important to ensure it has a crowned driving surface and shoulder area that slopes directly away from the edge for water drainage.  
Everything is looking ready for the morning tour.  
There goes Fernando again.  
I will be sure share photos from the garden tour in my next blog.  
Stay turned.  



# en_2022_06-07

## MarthaBlog_2022_06_06
* From:【[The Foods We Enjoyed Over Memorial Day Weekend in Maine](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/the-foods-we-enjoyed-over-memorial-day-weekend-in-maine.html)】

Early Saturday morning, we started with a traditional bacon and egg breakfast with a handful of those delicious chips on the side.  
And of course – don’t forget the cappuccino!  
Dinner included this fresh Caesar salad with homemade croutons.  
We then enjoyed steamed artichokes which I brought with me from New York.  
Our main course was steak – enough for everyone to have seconds if desired.  
Here’s my plate.  
Our grilled steaks were served with carrots from Triple Chick Farm and a helping of polenta – a northern Italian dish made of coarsely ground corn.
Freshly cooked, polenta is soft and creamy, like porridge.  
Our dessert was grilled peaches served with homemade vanilla ice cream and brown butter shortbread cookies.  
The next day we started with fresh strawberries and orange juice, squeezed by Cheryl DuLong.  
And then, biscuits with caviar and eggs.  
These plates were originally owned by Mrs. Edsel Ford and were left in the home when I moved here.  
The collection is still intact and well used.  
Sunday’s dinner was lobster and a large platter of delicious vegetables – carrots, peas, potatoes, and onions.  
We devoured everything.  
We finished with a scrumptious rhubarb pie using rhubarb grown right here at Skylands – it was picked just hours earlier.  
Chef Pierre always make this at least once during our stay – it’s another of Kevin’s favorites.  
It’s poached eggs with tomatoes and cheese garnished with herbs.  
Memorial Day Weekend wouldn’t be complete without some hot dogs.  
We enjoyed these on Monday with all the traditional fixings.  
We also had a beet and radicchio salad.  
Along with a pea salad served with lobster, tomatoes, and relish.  
Also on the table – grilled steak with roasted red peppers.  
And potato and herbs salad – a perfect lunch to hold us through the last day of our stay.  
In all, we had such an enjoyable time at Skylands.  
I can’t wait to return this summer.  
And please check out more of my photos on my Instagram page @MarthaStewart48.


# en_2022_06-06

## MarthaBlog_2022_06_01
* From:【[Blooming Flowers in the Cutting Garden](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/blooming-flowers-in-the-cutting-garden.html)】

My gardeners and I spend a lot of time caring for this garden – carefully placing and planting each specimen.  
Right now it is bursting with vibrant colors – the poppies, roses, columbines, and dianthus are all blooming profusely.  
The garden looks beautiful.  
…  
My large flower cutting garden, which measures 150-feet by 90-feet, is growing more and more lush each year.  
I wanted the plants to be mixed, so every bed is planted with a variety of specimens.  
Every row of flowers is interesting and colorful.  

…

Here’s a closer look at the small blossoms.  
Lady’s mantle grows extremely well in full sun to partial shade and will tolerate near-complete shade.  
In very hot climates, it prefers some afternoon shade to avoid sun-scald on the leaves.  

…

Here’s another gorgeous lupine plant – in yellow and soft pink.  
Their telltale look is a tall, showy spire of flowers with impressive grayish-green textured foliage.  
Iris flowers can begin blooming in late winter to early spring.  
A range of varieties provide extended color in the flower bed.  
Iris care is minimal once the growing iris is established.  
I have many iris cultivars growing in the garden.  
Iris flowers bloom in shades of purple, blue, white, and yellow and include many hybridized versions that are multi-colored.  

…

I have many roses in my flower garden.  
Many of them were transferred here from my home in East Hampton a few years ago.  
I also planted many new rose bushes and climbers this year from rose hybridizer, David Austin.  
Here is a beautiful rose in light pink with the late afternoon light shining upon it.  
Soon, we will have an abundance of gorgeous roes.  

…

And, among my favorite flower is peony.  
The peony is any plant in the genus Paeonia.  
Peonies are considered rich in tradition – they are the floral symbol of China, the state flower of Indiana, and the 12th wedding anniversary bloom.  
…

We continue to plant more and more flowering plants in this garden.  
I will be sure to share photos as new blossoms appear.  
What flowers are blooming in your garden?

### COMMENTS
Hi Martha,  
It’s always so nice to see your many flowers!  
I rarely see that many down here in Florida unless I go to a nursery or botanical garden such as Mounts.  


# en_2022_06-05

## MarthaBlog_2022_06_04
* From:【[Planting the Skylands Terrace 2022](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/planting-the-skylands-terrace-2022.html)】

...

Some of these plants were grown in my greenhouse here in Maine.  
Propagating this way saves a lot of cost.  

These are called Birds of Paradise, Strelitzia reginae - a species of evergreen tropical herbaceous plant native to South Africa.  


...

Behind the planted urn are the lush green kiwi vines growing on my home.  
Kiwi vines can tolerate a lot of different light conditions, but more exposure to sun brings out better colors in the leaves, some of which can be variegated.

...

Skylands gardener, Mike Harding, cleans up after our long afternoon of planting.  
This days was cloudy with lots of fog, but still very nice conditions for a successful gardening day.

...

This “sand garden” built along the eastern edge of the stream, uses rocks and raked sand to suggest is lands surrounded by flowing water.  
The sandy area is offered to visitors as places for quiet contemplation.  
Gardens of raked sand and stone are referred to as karesansui, which means dry landscape gardens in Japanese.

...

Back at the house, Kevin always creates the most gorgeous flower arrangements.  
Here is with Dougias and all the lilacs cut and ready for Kevin to arrange – the fragrance of all these blooms is intoxicating.  


## MarthaBlog_2022_06_03
* From:【[Caring for My American Beech Trees](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/caring-for-my-american-beech-trees.html)】

...

In order to help the trees, the first step was to check the soil.  
Rocky says, "**never guess, always test.**"  
And he took many samples of soil from around the trees.  
Rocky's mantra is "if one takes the time to learn the language of the land, the soil will speak."  
Good quality, healthy soil is essential for plant growth.  
Soil is essential for plant growth.  
Soil helps regulate the water, supports biodiversity, filters pollutants, provides support, and cycles nutrients.  

...

It is a good idea to test one’s garden soil every three to five years.  

...

Next, Rocky measures the trunk of the tree to see how much food is needed to feed it.

## MarthaBlog_2022_06_02
* From:【[My Blooming Herbaceous Peony Garden](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/my-blooming-herbaceous-peony-garden.html)】

...

This was one of the first white peonies to open.  
...  
They are native to Asia, Europe, and Western North America.  

...

Peonies are one of the best-known and most dearly loved perennials --- not surprising considering their beauty, trouble-free nature and longevity.  

Herbaceous peonies grow two to four feet tall with sturdy stems and blooms that can reach up to 10-inches wide.  
We spaced the plants about 3 to 4 feet apart to avoid any competing roots.  

...

The peony’s fragrance can vary, but most have sweet, clean scents.  
And, do you know… 
Pink peonies tend to have stronger fragrances than red peonies?  
Double from white peonies are also very aromatic.  
