
# en_2022_06-07

## 
* From:【[]()】

# en_2022_06-06

## 

## Overview

The Subject of This Textbook.  
Before starting with the content of the text, we first ask the basic question:【what is linear algebra?】  
* Linear: having to do with lines, planes, etc.
* Solving equations involving unknowns.

The name of the textbook highlights an import theme:  
The synthesis between algebra and geometry.  
It will be very important to us to understand systems of linear equations both algebraically (writing equations for their solutions) and geometrically (drawing pictures and visualizing).  

### Remark.
At the simple level, solving a system of linear equations is not very hard.  
You probably learned in high school how to solve a system like:  

$ f(x) = \begin{cases} 
x+3y-z=4 
\\ 2x-y+3z=17 
\\ y-4z=-3 \end{cases} $  

However, in real life one usually has to be more clever.  
* Engineers need to solve many, many equations in many, many variables.  
Here is a tiny example:  

$ f(x) = \begin{cases}  
3x_1 + 4x_2 + 10x_3 + 19x_4 - 2x_5 - 3x_6 = 141 
\\ 7x_1 + 2x_2 - 13x_3 - 7x_4 + 21x_5 + 8x_6 = 2567 
\\ -x_1 +9x2 + \frac{3}{2}x_3 + x_4 + 14x_5 + 27x_6 =26 
\\ \frac{1}{2}x_1 + 4x_2 + 10x_3 + 11x_4 + 2x_5 + x_6 = -15 
\end{cases} $  

* Often it is enough to know some information about the set of solutions, without having to solve the equations in the first place.  
For instance, does there exist a solution?

* What does the solution set look like geometrically?  
Is there still a solution if we change the 26 to a 27?  

* Sometimes the coefficients also contain parameters, like the eigenvalue equation
$ 
f(x) = 
\begin{cases} 
(7-\lambda)x \hspace{2mm}+ \hspace{9mm}y \hspace{2mm}+ \hspace{12mm}3z = 0 
\\  \hspace{6mm}-3x \hspace{2mm}+ (2-\lambda)y \hspace{2mm}- \hspace{11mm}3z = 0 
\\  \hspace{6mm}-3x \hspace{2mm}+ \hspace{9mm}2y \hspace{2mm}+ (-1-\lambda)z = 0 
\end{cases} 
$  

----------
上面的内容是手抄的，下面的内容是复制黏贴的。

* In data modeling, a system of equations generally does not actually have a solution.  
In that case, what is the best approximate solution?

1. Solve the matrix equation 【$ Ax=b $】【 (chapters 2–4)】
    * Solve systems of linear equations using matrices, row reduction, and inverses.
    * Analyze systems of linear equations geometrically using the geometry of solution sets and linear transformations.

2. Solve the matrix equation 【$ Ax=\lambda x $】【 (chapters 5–6)】
    * Solve eigenvalue problems using the characteristic polynomial.
    * Understand the geometry of matrices using similarity, eigenvalues, diagonalization, and complex numbers.

3. Approximately solve the the matrix equation【$ Ax=b $】【 (chapter 7)】
    * Find best-fit solutions to systems of linear equations that have no actual solution using least-squares approximations.
    * Study the geometry of closest vectors and orthogonal projections.
This text is roughly half computational.
This text is roughly half computational and half conceptual in nature.  
The main goal is to present a library of linear algebra tools, and more importantly, to teach a conceptual framework for understanding which tools should be applied in a given context. 

> If Matlab can find the answer faster than you can, then your question is just an algorithm: this is not real problem solving.

The subtle part of the subject lies in understanding what computation to ask the computer to do for you—it is far less important to know how to perform computations that a computer can do better than you anyway.

### Uses of Linear Algebra in Engineering
The vast majority of undergraduates at Georgia Tech have to take a course in linear algebra. There is a reason for this:

> Most engineering problems, no matter how complicated, can be reduced to linear algebra:
> * $ Ax = b $
> * $ Ax = \lambda x $
> * $ Ax \approx b $

Here we present some sample problems in science and engineering that require linear algebra to solve.
（…例子省略）	

### How to Use This Textbook 
There are a number of different categories of ideas that are contained in most sections. They are listed at the top of the section, under Objectives, for easy review. We classify them as follows.

* **Recipes**: 
these are algorithms that are generally straightforward (if sometimes tedious), and are usually done by computer in real life.  
They are nonetheless important to learn and to practice.

* **Vocabulary words**:  
forming a conceptual understanding of the subject of linear algebra means being able to communicate much more precisely than in ordinary speech. The vocabulary words have precise definitions, which must be learned and used correctly.

* **Essential vocabulary words**:  
these vocabulary words are essential in that they form the essence of the subject of linear algebra.  
For instance, if you do not know the definition of an eigenvector, then by definition you cannot claim to understand linear algebra.

* **Theorems**:  
these describe in a precise way how the objects of interest relate to each other.  
Knowing which recipe to use in a given situation generally means recognizing which vocabulary words to use to describe the situation, and understanding which theorems apply to that problem.

* **Pictures**:  
visualizing the geometry underlying the algebra means interpreting and drawing pictures of the objects involved.  
The pictures are meant to be a core part of the material in the text: they are not just a pretty add-on.


This textbook is exclusively targeted at Math 1553 at Georgia Tech.  
As such, it contains exactly the material that is taught in that class;  
no more, and no less: students in Math 1553 are responsible for understanding all visible content.  
In the online version some extra material (most examples and proofs, for instance) is hidden, in that one needs to click on a link to reveal it, like this:

### Hidden Content
Hidden content is meant to enrich your understanding of the topic, but is not an official part of Math 1553.  
That said, the text will be very hard to follow without understanding the examples, and studying the proofs is an excellent way to learn the conceptual part of the material. (Not applicable to the PDF version.)


Finally, we remark that there are over 140 interactive demos contained in the text, which were created to illustrate the geometry of the topic.  
Click the “view in a new window” link, and play around with them! You will need a modern browser. Internet Explorer is not a modern browser; try Safari, Chrome, or Firefox.  
Here is a demo from [Section 6.5]( https://textbooks.math.gatech.edu/ila/least-squares.html)  
（…例子省略）

## MarthaBlog_2022_06_01
* From:【[Blooming Flowers in the Cutting Garden](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/blooming-flowers-in-the-cutting-garden.html)】

My gardeners and I spend a lot of time caring for this garden – carefully placing and planting each specimen.  
Right now it is bursting with vibrant colors – the poppies, roses, columbines, and dianthus are all blooming profusely.  
The garden looks beautiful.  
…  
My large flower cutting garden, which measures 150-feet by 90-feet, is growing more and more lush each year.  
I wanted the plants to be mixed, so every bed is planted with a variety of specimens.  
Every row of flowers is interesting and colorful.  

…

Here’s a closer look at the small blossoms.  
Lady’s mantle grows extremely well in full sun to partial shade and will tolerate near-complete shade.  
In very hot climates, it prefers some afternoon shade to avoid sun-scald on the leaves.  

…

Here’s another gorgeous lupine plant – in yellow and soft pink.  
Their telltale look is a tall, showy spire of flowers with impressive grayish-green textured foliage.  
Iris flowers can begin blooming in late winter to early spring.  
A range of varieties provide extended color in the flower bed.  
Iris care is minimal once the growing iris is established.  
I have many iris cultivars growing in the garden.  
Iris flowers bloom in shades of purple, blue, white, and yellow and include many hybridized versions that are multi-colored.  

…

I have many roses in my flower garden.  
Many of them were transferred here from my home in East Hampton a few years ago.  
I also planted many new rose bushes and climbers this year from rose hybridizer, David Austin.  
Here is a beautiful rose in light pink with the late afternoon light shining upon it.  
Soon, we will have an abundance of gorgeous roes.  

…

And, among my favorite flower is peony.  
The peony is any plant in the genus Paeonia.  
Peonies are considered rich in tradition – they are the floral symbol of China, the state flower of Indiana, and the 12th wedding anniversary bloom.  
…

We continue to plant more and more flowering plants in this garden.  
I will be sure to share photos as new blossoms appear.  
What flowers are blooming in your garden?

### COMMENTS
Hi Martha,  
It’s always so nice to see your many flowers!  
I rarely see that many down here in Florida unless I go to a nursery or botanical garden such as Mounts.  


# en_2022_06-05

## MarthaBlog_2022_06_04
* From:【[Planting the Skylands Terrace 2022](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/planting-the-skylands-terrace-2022.html)】

...

Some of these plants were grown in my greenhouse here in Maine.  
Propagating this way saves a lot of cost.  

These are called Birds of Paradise, Strelitzia reginae - a species of evergreen tropical herbaceous plant native to South Africa.  


...

Behind the planted urn are the lush green kiwi vines growing on my home.  
Kiwi vines can tolerate a lot of different light conditions, but more exposure to sun brings out better colors in the leaves, some of which can be variegated.

...

Skylands gardener, Mike Harding, cleans up after our long afternoon of planting.  
This days was cloudy with lots of fog, but still very nice conditions for a successful gardening day.

...

This “sand garden” built along the eastern edge of the stream, uses rocks and raked sand to suggest is lands surrounded by flowing water.  
The sandy area is offered to visitors as places for quiet contemplation.  
Gardens of raked sand and stone are referred to as karesansui, which means dry landscape gardens in Japanese.

...

Back at the house, Kevin always creates the most gorgeous flower arrangements.  
Here is with Dougias and all the lilacs cut and ready for Kevin to arrange – the fragrance of all these blooms is intoxicating.  


## MarthaBlog_2022_06_03
* From:【[Caring for My American Beech Trees](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/caring-for-my-american-beech-trees.html)】

...

In order to help the trees, the first step was to check the soil.  
Rocky says, "**never guess, always test.**"  
And he took many samples of soil from around the trees.  
Rocky's mantra is "if one takes the time to learn the language of the land, the soil will speak."  
Good quality, healthy soil is essential for plant growth.  
Soil is essential for plant growth.  
Soil helps regulate the water, supports biodiversity, filters pollutants, provides support, and cycles nutrients.  

...

It is a good idea to test one’s garden soil every three to five years.  

...

Next, Rocky measures the trunk of the tree to see how much food is needed to feed it.

## MarthaBlog_2022_06_02
* From:【[My Blooming Herbaceous Peony Garden](https://www.themarthablog.com/2022/06/my-blooming-herbaceous-peony-garden.html)】

...

This was one of the first white peonies to open.  
...  
They are native to Asia, Europe, and Western North America.  

...

Peonies are one of the best-known and most dearly loved perennials --- not surprising considering their beauty, trouble-free nature and longevity.  

Herbaceous peonies grow two to four feet tall with sturdy stems and blooms that can reach up to 10-inches wide.  
We spaced the plants about 3 to 4 feet apart to avoid any competing roots.  

...

The peony’s fragrance can vary, but most have sweet, clean scents.  
And, do you know… 
Pink peonies tend to have stronger fragrances than red peonies?  
Double from white peonies are also very aromatic.  
